IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
Plaintiff, )
vs. )
) CASE NO. CI
)
) SUMMONS
Defendant. ) FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER
) [Not valid without court seal]
To: , Defendant. You are summoned and required to
do the following:
1. Appear for a hearing to determine whether you should be evicted from the premises
(the rental property) described in the attached complaint.
Hearing Date and Time:
Court Address: Courtroom:
AND
2. File a written answer to all other claims made in the attached complaint within 20
days after the date this summons was served on you. An answer form (CIV-735) and
instructions (CIV-720 booklet) are available from your local court clerk and on the court
system’s website at https://courts.alaska.gov/forms/index.htm.
Within the same 20-day time limit, you must also serve a copy of your answer on:
Plaintiff's attorney or plaintiff (if unrepresented):
Address:
If you do not file a written answer, the court may enter a default judgment against you
for the relief asked for in the complaint. This may include back rent, payment for
damages done to the property, and the costs of bringing this court case.
AND
3. If you do not have an attorney, tell the court and all other parties in this case, in writing,
of your current mailing address (and email address, if you want to receive court papers
by email). If there are any changes to your contact information after you file your
answer, file Notice of Change of Contact Information (form TF-955). This form is
available from the court clerk or online at the website above. The court and the plaintiff
will send documents to your most recent mailing address or email address on file. This
may include notices of hearings, court orders, judgments, etc. If you do not update
your contact information, you may not receive these important papers.
OR
If you have an attorney, your attorney must comply with Alaska R. Civ. P 5(i).
This case has been assigned to Judge . For the eviction
hearing only, the case may be assigned to a different judge.
CLERK OF COURT
(SEAL)
Date Deputy Clerk
CIV-105 (3/23) Civil Rules 4, 5, 12, 55, and 85
SUMMONS – FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER

Alaska Court System
Eviction Diversion Program
Post-Filing Information Sheet
Your landlord has started a court case to evict you. The court has scheduled a hearing for
your court case. At this hearing, the judge will decide if you need to move out. The landlord
has sent you a Complaint and Summons.
The Complaint tells you the reason the landlord wants to evict you and if the landlord
claims you owe them money (such as for back rent or damage to the property).
The Summons tells you when and where your eviction hearing will be and the time you
have to file a written Answer to the landlord's claims.
Do not ignore your eviction case.
If you do not do anything, you will probably lose your case.
Act
But you have options:
Talk to your landlord and try to work out an agreement,
Move out and tell your landlord that you moved out, or
Go to court for all your hearings and tell the judge your side.
It is always a good idea to get legal information and advice.
Get free legal information from the court's webpage:
visit ak-courts.info/housing or scan the QR code.
Learn
Get free legal advice from volunteer lawyers with Alaska Legal
Services Corporation's (ALSC) Landlord-Tenant Helpline:
Monday – Thursday
855-743-1001
6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.
If you think you may qualify for ALSC services, apply at 888-478-2572 or alsc-law.org/apply-for-services
MED-601 (2/25) Civil Rule 100
EVICTION DIVERSION PROGRAM - POST-FILING INFORMATION SHEET Admin. Bulletin 98