CM-010
ATTORNEY OR PARTY WITHOUT ATTORNEY STATE BAR NUMBER: FOR COURT USE ONLY
NAME:
FIRM NAME:
STREET ADDRESS:
CITY: STATE: ZIP CODE:
TELEPHONE NO.: FAX NO.:
EMAIL ADDRESS:
ATTORNEY FOR (name):
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF
STREET ADDRESS:
MAILING ADDRESS:
CITY AND ZIP CODE:
BRANCH NAME:
CASE NAME:
CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET Complex Case Designation CASE NUMBER:
Unlimited Limited Counter Joinder
(Amount (Amount
demanded demanded is Filed with first appearance by defendant JUDGE:
exceeds $35,000) $35,000 or less) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.402) DEPT.:
Items 1–6 below must be completed (see instructions on page 2).
1. Check one box below for the case type that best describes this case:
Auto Tort Contract Provisionally Complex Civil Litigation
Auto (22) Breach of contract/warranty (06) (Cal. Rules of Court, rules 3.400–3.404)
Uninsured motorist (46) Rule 3.740 collections (09) Antitrust/Trade regulation (03)
Other collections (09) Construction defect (10)
Asbestos
Asbestos (04) Insurance coverage (18) Mass tort (40)
Other contract (37) Securities litigation (28)
Other PI/PD/WD (Personal Injury/Property
Damage/Wrongful Death) Tort Real Property Environmental/Toxic tort (30)
Product liability (24) Eminent domain/Inverse Comprehensive groundwater adjudication (47)
condemnation (14) Insurance coverage claims arising from the
Medical malpractice (45)
Wrongful eviction (33) above listed provisionally complex case types
Other PI/PD/WD (23) Other real property (26) (41)
Non-PI/PD/WD (Other) Tort Unlawful Detainer Enforcement of Judgment
Business tort/Unfair business practice (07) Commercial (31) Enforcement of judgment (20)
Civil rights (08) Residential (32)
Miscellaneous Civil Complaint
Defamation (13) Drugs (38)
RICO (27)
Fraud (16) Judicial Review
Other complaint (not specified above) (42)
Intellectual property (19) Asset forfeiture (05)
Professional negligence (25) Petition re arbitration award (11) Miscellaneous Civil Petition
Other non-PI/PD/WD tort (35) Writ of mandate (02) Partnership and corporate governance (21)
Employment Other judicial review (39) Other petition (not specified above) (43)
Wrongful termination (36) Employment Development
Department (EDD)
Other employment (15)
EDD decision review (48)
Judicial Council of California, courts.ca.gov Civil Case Cover Sheet CM-010, Page 1 of 3
Rev. January 1, 2026, Mandatory Form
Cal. Rules of Court, rules 2.30, 3.220, 3.400–3.403, 3.740
Cal. Stds. Jud. Admin., std. 3.10

CM-010
2. Is this case complex under rule 3.400 of the California Rules of Court? Yes No
If the case is complex, mark the factors requiring exceptional judicial management:
a. Large number of separately represented parties
b. Extensive motion practice raising difficult or novel issues that will be time-consuming to resolve
c. Substantial amount of documentary evidence
d. Large number of witnesses
e. Coordination with related actions pending in one or more courts in other counties, states, or countries, or in a federal court
f. Substantial postjudgment judicial supervision
3. Remedies sought (check all that apply):
a. monetary
b. nonmonetary; declaratory or injunctive relief
c. punitive
4. Number of causes of action (specify):
5. Is this case a class action suit? Yes No
6. If there are any known related cases, file and serve a notice of related case. (You may use form CM-015.)
Date:
(TYPE OR PRINT NAME) (SIGNATURE OF PARTY OR ATTORNEY FOR PARTY)
NOTICE
Plaintiff must file this cover sheet with the first paper filed in the action or proceeding (except small claims cases or cases filed under the Probate
Code, Family Code, or Welfare and Institutions Code). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.220.) Failure to file may result in sanctions.
File this cover sheet in addition to any cover sheet required by local court rule.
If this case is complex under rule 3.400 et seq. of the California Rules of Court, you must serve a copy of this cover sheet on all other parties to the
action or proceeding.
Unless this is a collections case under rule 3.740 of the California Rules of Court or a complex case, this cover sheet will be used for statistical
purposes only.
INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO COMPLETE THE COVER SHEET
To Plaintiffs and Others Filing First Papers. If you are filing a first paper (for example, a complaint) in a civil case, you must
complete and file, along with your first paper, the Civil Case Cover Sheet contained on pages 1 and 2. This information will be used to
compile statistics about the types and numbers of cases filed. You must complete items 1 through 6 on the sheet. In item 1, you must
check one box for the case type that best describes the case. If the case fits both a general and a more specific type of case listed in
item 1, check the more specific one. If the case has multiple causes of action, check the box that best indicates the primary cause of
action. To assist you in completing the sheet, examples of the cases that belong under each case type in item 1 are provided below. A
cover sheet must be filed only with your initial paper. Failure to file a cover sheet with the first paper filed in a civil case may subject a
party, its counsel, or both to sanctions under rules 2.30 and 3.220 of the California Rules of Court.
To Parties in Rule 3.740 Collections Cases. A "collections case" under rule 3.740 of the California Rules of Court is defined as an
action for recovery of money owed in a sum stated to be certain that is not more than $35,000, exclusive of interest and attorney's fees,
arising from a transaction in which property, services, or money was acquired on credit. A collections case does not include an action
seeking the following: (1) tort damages, (2) punitive damages, (3) recovery of real property, (4) recovery of personal property, or (5) a
prejudgment writ of attachment. The identification of a case as a rule 3.740 collections case on this form means that it will be exempt
from the general time-for-service requirements and case management rules, unless a defendant files a responsive pleading. A rule
3.740 collections case will be subject to the requirements for service and obtaining a judgment in rule 3.740.
To Parties in Complex Cases. In complex cases only, parties must also use the Civil Case Cover Sheet to designate whether the
case is complex. If a plaintiff believes the case is complex under rule 3.400 of the California Rules of Court, this must be indicated by
completing the appropriate boxes in items 1 and 2. If a plaintiff designates a case as complex, the cover sheet must be served with the
complaint on all parties to the action. A defendant may file and serve no later than the time of its first appearance a joinder in the
plaintiff's designation, a counter-designation that the case is not complex, or, if the plaintiff has made no designation, a designation that
the case is complex.
SEE PAGE 3 FOR INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY.
Rev. January 1, 2026 Civil Case Cover Sheet CM-010, Page 2 of 3

CM-010
CASE TYPES AND EXAMPLES
Auto Tort Contract Provisionally Complex Civil Litigation (Cal.
Auto (22)–Personal Injury/Property Damage/ Breach of Contract/Warranty (06) Rules of Court, rules 3.400–3.403)
Wrongful Death Breach of Rental/Lease Contract (not Antitrust/Trade Regulation (03)
Uninsured Motorist (46) (if the case involves unlawful detainer or wrongful eviction) Construction Defect (10)
an uninsured motorist claim subject to Contract/Warranty Breach–Seller Plaintiff Claims Involving Mass Tort (40)
arbitration, check this item instead of Auto) (not fraud or negligence) Securities Litigation (28)
Asbestos Negligent Breach of Contract/Warranty Environmental/Toxic Tort (30)
Asbestos (04) Other Breach of Contract/Warranty Comprehensive Groundwater Adjudication
Asbestos Property Damage Collections (e.g., money owed, open book (47)
Asbestos Personal Injury/Wrongful Death accounts) (09) Insurance Coverage Claims (arising from
Other PI/PD/WD (Personal Injury/ Collections Case–Seller Plaintiff provisionally complex case type listed
Property Damage/Wrongful Death) Tort Other Promissory Note/Collections Case above) (41)
Product Liability (not asbestos or toxic/ Insurance Coverage (not provisionally Enforcement of Judgment
environmental) (24) complex) (18) Enforcement of Judgment (20)
Medical Malpractice (45) Auto Subrogation Abstract of Judgment (Out of County)
Medical Malpractice–Physicians & Other Coverage Confession of Judgment (non-domestic
Surgeons Other Contract (37) relations)
Other Professional Health Care Contractual Fraud Sister-State Judgment
Malpractice Other Contract Dispute Administrative Agency Award (not unpaid
Other PI/PD/WD (23) Real Property taxes)
Premises Liability (e.g., slip and fall) Eminent Domain/Inverse Condemnation (14) Petition/Certification of Entry of Judgment
Intentional Bodily Injury/PD/WD (e.g., Wrongful Eviction (33) on Unpaid Taxes
assault, vandalism) Other Real Property (e.g., quiet title) (26) Other Enforcement of Judgment Case
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress Writ of Possession of Real Property Miscellaneous Civil Complaint
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress Mortgage Foreclosure RICO (27)
Other PI/PD/WD Quiet Title Other Complaint (not specified above) (42)
Non-PI/PD/WD (Other) Tort Other Real Property (not eminent Declaratory Relief Only Injunctive Relief
Business Tort/Unfair Business Practice (07) domain, landlord-tenant, or Only (non-harassment)
Civil Rights (e.g., discrimination, false arrest) foreclosure) Mechanic's Lien
(not civil harassment) (08) Unlawful Detainer Other Commercial Complaint Case (non-
Defamation (e.g., slander, libel) (13) Commercial (31) tort/non-complex)
Fraud (16) Residential (32) Other Civil Complaint (non-tort/non-
Intellectual Property (19) Drugs (38) (if the case involves illegal drugs, complex)
Professional Negligence (25) check this item; otherwise, report as Miscellaneous Civil Petition
Legal Malpractice Commercial or Residential) Partnership and Corporate Governance (21)
Other Professional Malpractice (not Judicial Review Other Petition (not specified above) (43)
medical or legal) Asset Forfeiture (05) Civil Harassment
Other Non-PI/PD/WD Tort (35) Petition re Arbitration Award (11) Workplace Violence
Employment Writ of Mandate (02) Elder/Dependent Adult Abuse
Wrongful Termination (36) Writ–Administrative Mandamus Election Contest
Other Employment (15) Writ–Mandamus on Limited Court Case Petition for Name Change
Matter Petition for Relief From Late Claim
Writ–Other Limited Court Case Review Other Civil Petition
Other Judicial Review (39)
Review of Health Officer Order
Notice of Appeal–Labor Commissioner
Appeals
Employment Development Department (EDD)
EDD Decision Review (48) (if the case
involves an Employment Development
Department decision, check this item
instead of Wrongful Termination or Other
Employment)
Rev. January 1, 2026 Civil Case Cover Sheet CM-010, Page 3 of 3
For your protection and privacy, please press the Clear
button after you have printed the form.