Note to Clerks: Docket this form according to the codes listed under the “Appearance” section.
IN TRIAL COURTS FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA AT
Case Number:
Plaintiff:
Defendant:
JUDGMENT FOR POSSESSION
Appearance at hearing at which judgment for possession was entered:
No Defendants were present. [Docket Code: CIV300NP ]
One or more Defendants were present. [Docket Code: CIV300P]
Not applicable. Judgment entered after a party breached an agreement.
[Docket Code: CIV300NA]
The complaint in this case asks for possession of the premises
but does not ask for recovery of damages. On entry of this judgment, this case is closed.
and also asks for a judgment for unpaid rent and/or other damages. Under Civil Rule
54(b), the court finds that there is no just reason for delay in entry of the judgment for
possession and directs entry of this judgment for possession.
IT IS ORDERED that Plaintiff is entitled to possession of the following property:
Description:
House, Apartment, Trailer, Trailer Space, etc.
Location:
Street Address, Apartment Number or Trailer Space Number, City, and State
Defendant must vacate the property by
Date and Time
If the occupants do not leave the property by that time, law enforcement may physically
remove them and their possessions pursuant to a Writ of Assistance.
Plaintiff shall recover from Defendant, ,
the costs of this possession phase of the proceeding as follows:
Filing fee $
Service of process
Witness fees
Attorney fees
Other:
TOTAL COSTS $
This judgment shall bear interest at the annual rate of % from the date of judgment
until paid. After this judgment is collected, Plaintiff shall file with the court a Satisfaction of
Judgment (may use form CIV-860).
Costs and fees will be determined when the damages claim is decided.
Effective Date Judicial Officer
I certify that on , a copy of this judgment
was distributed to: Plaintiff Defendant Type or Print Name
Other:
By JA/Clerk:
CIV-300 (9/23) Civil Rules 85 and 54(b)
JUDGMENT FOR POSSESSION AS 09.45.070, 22.15.030(a)(6)