Change of Name | CICONM
Person Filing Petition:
Name: Phone:
Mailing Address:
Email Address:
By providing an email address, I agree that the court can send me court documents at this email address.
IN THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA AT
In the Matter of a Change of Name for: )
)
, )
A Minor Child (current legal name) )
Date of Birth: , )
) CASE NO.
By: , )
Petitioner (parent or legal guardian) ) PETITION TO
) CHANGE CHILD’S NAME
[Write the minor’s current name (and any former name) exactly as it appears on official
documents. If there are any differences, including punctuation marks, you may not be able to
change identification documents to the minor’s new name.]
Petitioner requests that the court enter a judgment changing the minor’s name as follows:
1. The minor child’s current legal name is:
First Name Middle Name Last Name
2. I want the minor to take and be legally known by a new name, which is:
First Name Middle Name Last Name
3. I request a court order to change the minor’s birth certificate to the new name in section 2.
[Only complete this section if you want to change the minor’s name on their
birth certificate. If the court grants your request, you must still contact Alaska
Vital Records to complete further steps. If the minor’s birth certificate was
issued in a state other than Alaska, contact that state directly for instructions.
See form CIV-693 for more details.]
The minor’s current legal name is exactly the same as the name on their birth
certificate.
The minor’s current legal name is different than the name on their birth certificate.
The name on the minor’s birth certificate is:
First Name Middle Name Last Name
4. I am the minor child’s parent. legal guardian.
5. The reasons for this request for a change of name are: [Attach more pages if needed.]
Page 1 of 3
CIV-694 (7/25) Civil Rule 84(e)
PETITION TO CHANGE CHILD’S NAME AS 09.55.010

Change of Name | CICONM
6. Consent to this name change by the minor’s other parent (or by both parents, if this petition
is filed by a guardian), [name of other parent],
is attached.
is not attached.
is not necessary, because:
the parent(s) is/are deceased. A certified copy of the child’s birth certificate and the
parent’s death certificate are attached.
parental rights were terminated on [date] in a court in
the state of . [Attach order if you have it.]
other:
7. This name change is requested for personal reasons and not to avoid judgments, obligations,
debts, or to defraud any person. The reasons stated are consistent with the public interest.
8. Other Requests: [Attach more pages if needed.]
Sign this in front of a notary. A court clerk can provide this notary service for you for free. Bring a
photo ID with you for the notarization. If you do not have access to a notary or court clerk, you may
fill out and attach Self Certification (No Notary Available) (form TF-835).
I state on oath or affirm that I read this document and believe all statements in it are true.
Date Petitioner’s Signature
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at on
(SEAL)
Court clerk, notary public, or other person
authorized to administer oaths.
My commission expires:
Use of TrueFiling (Administrative Bulletin No. 92 - AB 92)
1. See if TrueFiling is available for your case type and court location at ak-courts.info/tfcourts.
2. If available, you must use TrueFiling unless you are exempt. You are exempt if one of
these applies:
• You are in a jail or correctional facility.
• You have a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
• You do not have safe access to a computer, internet, or email.
• You cannot access the help you need to use TrueFiling.
• You have a language barrier or are Limited English Proficient.
You do not need to prove you are exempt. If you are exempt and you choose not to use
TrueFiling, check and sign the text box below. If you sign below, you can only give documents
to the court by mail or in person. You cannot email them.
I certify that I am exempt from using TrueFiling for a reason listed in AB 92.
Signature: Print or Type Name:
Page 2 of 3
CIV-694 (7/25) Civil Rule 84(e)
PETITION TO CHANGE CHILD’S NAME AS 09.55.010

Change of Name | CICONM
Next Steps
1. Using TrueFiling: Create a TrueFiling account and log in. Upload this petition and any
attachments as one “bundle.” See instructions at ak-courts.info/tfhowto.
Not Using TrueFiling: Make a copy of this petition and any attachments for your records.
Bring the original to the court in person or mail it (court directory: ak-courts.info/dir).
2. There is a fee to file a case (see fee amounts at ak-courts.info/courtfees). In TrueFiling, pay
the fee with a credit or debit card. In person, you can pay the court clerk with most forms of
payment. By mail, include a check or money order. If you cannot afford the fee, attach
form TF-920 to request a waiver of the fee from the judge. Nothing will happen in your case
until you pay the fee or the court approves your waiver.
3. The court will schedule your case for a hearing and notify you of the date, time, and place.
The hearing information and proposed name change will be posted on the court’s website
unless you request a waiver of posting (see form CIV-709 to request a waiver). In addition,
the judge may order you to provide notice to others. Please carefully read any paperwork
you receive from the court for further instructions. If you do not follow any notice or posting
requirements, your case may be delayed.
Page 3 of 3
CIV-694 (7/25) Civil Rule 84(e)
PETITION TO CHANGE CHILD’S NAME AS 09.55.010