Stalking: Short Term | CIV752SE
Stalking: Long Term | CIV752SL
IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
PETITIONER (protected person) )
Birthdate: )
Petitioner is a child. Who is signing for the child? ) CASE NO.
Name: DOB: ) [The court will fill in this line]
Relationship to child: )
v. ) PETITION FOR
) STALKING
RESPONDENT (restrained person) ) PROTECTIVE ORDER
Birthdate (estimate age if unknown): ) (for non-DV cases only**)
Respondent is or appears to be a minor )
I swear or affirm under penalty of perjury that all the information I provide in this petition is true
to the best of my knowledge and belief.
1. I request the following protective order(s).
If there is any chance you will need protection for more than 20 days, you should request both
an ex parte (20-day) order and long-term (one-year) order by checking both boxes.
an ex parte protective order (20-day order).
[This order can take effect immediately based on only the petition and Petitioner’s
testimony, before Respondent knows about the ex parte petition. If the ex parte order
is granted, the police will serve it on Respondent. If the ex parte order is denied but the
court still sets a hearing on your request for a long-term order, the police will serve
Respondent a copy of this petition and notice of the long-term hearing date.]
I certify that I
have not tried to notify Respondent that I am filing this petition.
notified or tried to notify Respondent as follows:
a long-term protective order (one-year order).
[This order can only be issued after notice to Respondent and a court hearing. This
order will last for one year, unless the court ends it sooner. The police will notify
Respondent of the hearing.]
2. Respondent is a: [check all that apply]
(former) friend neighbor, landlord, or tenant (not living together)
classmate partner or ex-partner of one my family members
client or former client ex-partner of my current significant other
co-worker or employer current significant other of my ex-partner
other (describe):
I do not know and have never been acquainted with Respondent
**If you are related to Respondent by blood, adoption, or marriage, or have ever (1) been
in a dating or romantic relationship with Respondent, (2) lived with Respondent, or (3)
had a child with Respondent, file a domestic violence petition (DV-100) instead of this
form. Stalking is included as one of the qualifying crimes of domestic violence.**
This is Not a Court Order
Page 1 of 4
CIV-752 (11/21)(cs) AS 18.65.850-.870
PETITION FOR STALKING PROTECTIVE ORDER Civil Rule 65.1

v. Case No.
3. Respondent has stalked me as described below:
[Be as specific as you can about what Respondent did, including when and where it happened.
The judge must have details in order to make a decision on your petition. You may find it
helpful to read the definitions in the text box below before you begin writing. You must fill
out at least the starred (*) sections to qualify for a stalking protective order. Attach additional
pages if necessary—write only on one side of the page.]
a.* I specifically told Respondent not to have contact with me as described below:
[Include date/time and how you communicated this to Respondent]
I did not specifically say anything to Respondent, but Respondent should have
known that I wanted no contact because:
b.* First nonconsensual contact:
c.* Second nonconsensual contact:
d. Additional nonconsensual contacts:
e.* The contacts described above made me afraid of physical injury or death, or the physical
injury or death of my family member(s), because:
[This is a plain language summary of the stalking statutes. For the complete text, see AS 11.41.260-270.]
“Stalking” means that the respondent made “nonconsensual contact” with you two or more times, and that these
contacts made you reasonably afraid of death or physical injury, or the death or physical injury of a family member.
“Contact” includes many things (not all of them are listed here). Examples are: calling you, messaging you on social
media, following you, going onto your property, leaving objects for you, tracking you with GPS, hacking your phone
“Nonconsensual” contact means:
• Contact that you did not specifically agree to, or is not reasonable under generally accepted social norms
• Contact that you agreed to at first, but it continued after you told the respondent you no longer wanted it
• Contact that goes beyond what you agreed to
Note: If there is back-and-forth conversation or argument between you and the respondent, it is usually not
considered nonconsensual contact, even if the conversation is negative
This is Not a Court Order
Page 2 of 4
CIV-752 (11/21)(cs) AS 18.65.850-.870
PETITION FOR STALKING PROTECTIVE ORDER Civil Rule 65.1

v. Case No.
4. A protective order is necessary to keep me safe from future stalking because:
5. I request an order from the court directing: [check all that apply]
a. Respondent not to follow, approach, confront, watch, or stalk me in any other way, or
threaten to do so.
b. Respondent not to contact me by telephone, text message, e-mail, social media
messaging, U.S. mail, or otherwise communicate directly or indirectly by any means
with me or the following members of my household:
c. Respondent to stay away from my residence.
Is this also Respondent's current residence? yes no
Does Respondent know where you live? yes no I don’t know
Do you want your residence to remain confidential from Respondent? yes no
[Important: only list your address on the line below if you want it written on the
protective order as a place for Respondent to stay away from. Your address will not
be confidential if it is listed on the court order.]
My residence address:
Respondent’s residence is:
unknown to me
in the same building as my residence
approximately feet miles from my residence
Describe or give address:
d. Respondent to stay away from the following places I go:
Place Street Address Distance to Stay Away
My school ft. mi.
Respondent also goes to school here.
My child(ren)’s school ft. mi.
Respondent also has a child or children at this school.
My job ft. mi.
Respondent also works here.
ft. mi.
ft. mi.
ft. mi.
Exceptions:
e. Other protections requested:
This is Not a Court Order
Page 3 of 4
CIV-752 (11/21)(cs) AS 18.65.850-.870
PETITION FOR STALKING PROTECTIVE ORDER Civil Rule 65.1

v. Case No.
6. Open court cases, in this or another state, involving me or Respondent (that I know of):
Type of Case Court Location Petitioner or Respondent
Respondent has these other court cases that I want the court to know about:
Type of Case Court Location
**Both Petitioner and Respondent must tell the court of any court cases involving either
of you that arise while a petition for protective order is pending. AS 18.65.865(d).**
7. Respondent information (if known):
Respondent’s full legal name and any nicknames or other names used:
Respondent's mailing address:
Respondent's home phone: Work phone:
Respondent’s email address:
8. Petitioner information:
[The court needs your mailing address to send you court papers, including notices of hearing.
If you believe it is not safe for Respondent to know where you live, write a safe "message"
address where you can be sure you will receive court papers. If you do not have an
address, email, and telephone number that can safely be revealed to Respondent,
ask the court clerk how you can provide this information so that it will be kept
confidential and not revealed to Respondent. Civil Rule 65.1.]
My (safe) mailing address:
My (safe) message phone:
My (safe) email address:
My full legal name:
Any nicknames or other names:
[A notary public, court clerk, or other authorized person must fill out the section below after watching you
sign. If you do not have access to any of these people, attach "Self-Certification" (form TF-835).]
Date Petitioner's Signature
Print Name
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at , Alaska on .
Court clerk, notary public, or other authorized person
My commission expires:
This is Not a Court Order
Page 4 of 4
CIV-752 (11/21)(cs) AS 18.65.850-.870
PETITION FOR STALKING PROTECTIVE ORDER Civil Rule 65.1

CONFIDENTIAL LAW ENFORCEMENT INFORMATION SHEET
Notice to Petitioner: You must supply the respondent's name and birth date, if known. Give as much information
as possible. This information will NOT be given to the respondent.
Notice to Law Enforcement: This information is confidential and supplied to assist you in serving the protective
order. After serving (or failing to serve) the order, notify petitioner and complete the return of service section on
the DV-125.
A. PETITIONER INFORMATION
Full name: Date of birth: Petitioner is a child.
Petitioner’s residence address:
Is this the address respondent is to stay away from? Yes No
Do you want to be notified when respondent is served? Yes No
Contact phone(s): cell other Email:
Is it safe for the court to leave messages on this cell? Yes No On the other phone? Yes No
Is it safe for the court to send paperwork about this case to the email address above? Yes No
List any specific times in the next 3 days when you are NOT available for the judge to call you for a hearing:
B. RESPONDENT INFORMATION
Full name: Nicknames: Respondent is a child.
Residence Address:
Is this the address respondent is to stay away from? Yes No Last four digits of SSN
Other Addresses:
Contact phone(s): cell other Email:
Where is respondent now (what street address)? Other information about respondent:
Sex Race *Date of Birth* HT WT
Friends / relatives / phone numbers / hangouts:
Hair Eyes State ID / Driver’s Lic. # ST
Other Identifiers (facial hair, scars, tattoos, etc.)
Hazards at respondent’s home (dogs, traps, guns):
Describe respondent’s house: log frame apartment single family duplex
1 story 2 story 3+ story main color trim color
Garage: separate attached none 4x4 needed to access address? Y N
Respondent’s employer Respondent’s vehicle information
Make Model
Employer address Plate No. State
Year
van pickup canopy camper
Work phone toolbox car 2 door 4 door
Work hours SUV other
Respondent’s position Other vehicles respondent is known to drive:
Supervisor
C. OFFICER SAFETY INFORMATION
Previous contact with police by respondent? No Yes Explain:
Any threats by respondent toward petitioner, family, police? Describe:
Weapons accessible to respondent (pistol, rifle, knife, other):
Expected mental state or history of respondent (include alcohol or drug use):
Is a divorce or other legal action pending that involves the respondent (child custody, eviction, bankruptcy,
repossession of property)?
Draw a map on a separate sheet of blank paper if it will help law enforcement.
DV-127 (8/21)(cs) Civil Rule 65.1
CONFIDENTIAL LAW ENFORCEMENT INFORMATION SHEET (DOMESTIC VIOLENCE OR STALKING)