IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
Plaintiff(s), )
vs. )
) CASE NO.
)
Defendant(s). ) NOTICE OF LEVY AND SALE
) OF PROPERTY, AND NOTICE OF
RIGHT TO EXEMPTIONS
To:
(judgment debtor)
On , the above court entered a judgment that you must pay
(date)
to the sum of $ .
(judgment creditor)
Because you have not paid this judgment, the court issued an order (called a "Writ of Execution")
which allows the creditor to seize your property and sell it to pay your debt. The attached Creditor's
Affidavit lists the property the creditor seized or plans to seize. The amount seized may be different
from the judgment amount because of payments you made, or court costs and interest which
accrued since the judgment. If you wish to check the figures, you may review the file at the clerk's
office listed below.
You may have a right to protect this property by claiming that it is "exempt." "Exempt" property is
property that is protected by law from being taken from you and sold to pay your debts. The Alaska
statutes and federal statutes define what property is exempt. The Judgment Debtor Booklet,
available at all state courthouses and online at https://public.courts.alaska.gov/web/forms/docs/civ-
511.pdf, explains these exemption laws.
If you want to try to protect your property, you may need to act immediately. Look in the Judgment
Debtor Booklet to see if your property listed on the Creditor's Affidavit may be claimed as exempt.
If the property has already been seized, fill out the attached Claim of Exemptions form. If the
property has not yet been seized, you may want to wait to fill out the Claim of Exemptions form
until you know exactly what has been seized. If you file your claim before anything has been
seized, the court may not be able to decide your claim. File your claim with the clerk at the
following court address within 15 days from the date your property was seized:
Clerk of Court
Remember: These "exemptions" are not automatically given to you. You must claim them or you
will lose them. YOU MUST FILE YOUR CLAIM WITHIN 15 DAYS AFTER THE SEIZURE.
Note: If another seizure of your property listed on the Creditor’s Affidavit occurs within the next 45
days, you may not receive another notice, but you will still have the right to claim exemptions. Your
15 days to claim exemptions will begin the date the court receives the seized property. To find that
date, see the instructions on pages 1-2 of the Judgment Debtor Booklet or call the court.
Name of Creditor's Attorney Name of Judgment Creditor
Address Address
CIV-510 (4/18)(cs) Civil Rule 69; AS 09.38.065,
NOTICE OF LEVY AS 09.38.065, .080, and .085