H T S A S
OW O ERVE UMMONS
I A C L
N IVIL AWSUIT
Do NOT use these instructions in Eviction Cases.
APRIL 2021
A C S
LASKA OURT YSTEM
CIV-106 (4/21)
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

Contents
1. Personal Service by Process Server 1
2. Service by Certified Mail 3
3. Service by Posting or Other Alternative Service 6
4. Civil Rule 4(f) Affidavit 12
5. What If? 14
Appendices:
A. Who Must Be Served 15
B. How to Address the Summons 19
©Copyright 2001, 2002, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2014, 2017, 2018, and 2021 Alaska
Court System
All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce the contents of this booklet, but not for profit, is hereby
granted to governmental and educational institutions. However, reproduction of any part of this booklet
for commercial purposes without the express written permission of the Alaska Court System is strictly
prohibited.
CIV-106 (4/21)(inside cover)
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

WHAT IS A SUMMONS?
A summons is a court order that notifies a defendant that a lawsuit has been filed
against him or her and that the defendant must file an answer within a specified
number of days. The procedure for issuing and serving a summons is governed by Civil
Rule 4.
When a lawsuit is filed, the clerk of court must issue a summons to each defendant
named in the complaint. You can download and fill out the CIV-100, Summons and
Notice to Both Parties of Judicial Assignment here: http://www.courts.alaska.gov/
forms/index.htm#civ. You may have to pay the court to make copies of this form after
the clerk signs it.
The plaintiff must then have each defendant “served” with the summons and a copy of
the complaint. The defendants must be served within 120 days from the date the
complaint is filed.1 The plaintiff is also required to file a Civil Rule 4(f) Affidavit
identifying the parties who have been served and any parties who have not been
served. Both plaintiffs and defendants must keep the court and all other parties
informed of any changes in their mailing addresses and telephone numbers.
“Served” means to have these documents given to the defendant by a process server,
certified mail or in another way allowed by Civil Rule 4.
These methods of services are explained below. See page 14 for information about
how to serve a defendant who is outside this state.
1. PERSONAL SERVICE BY PROCESS SERVER
A “process server” is a person licensed by the State of Alaska to serve
“process”. “Process” means court orders such as summonses, writs of
execution, and other types of documents required to be served by personal
service.
If you want to use a process server, you must:
a. Choose a process server. The court clerk will have a list of process
servers in your area. You can also find a list of licensed process servers
on the following Department of Public Safety (Alaska State Troopers)
website: https://dps.alaska.gov/Statewide/R-I/PermitsLicensing/Home,
then click on “Civilian Process Server List.” Many parts of the state do not
have process servers. In those areas, "process" is served by peace
officers (usually by State Troopers).
1 Civil Rule 4(f)
CIV-106 (4/21) 1
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

If the process server is not in your community, you must give the court an
envelope addressed to the process server with sufficient postage so the
clerk can mail the documents to the process server.
b. Contact the process server to determine the service fee. Pay the fee
directly to the process server unless the process server is not in your
community. In that case, make your check payable to the process server
but give it to the clerk to mail with the summons.
Fees are set by the individual process server. However, the maximum
amount you may recover as costs from the defendant is governed by
Administrative Rule 11. The current amount recoverable is $45.00 for
each person on whom service is made plus a minimum of $20.00 for the
first 25 miles or portion thereof traveled. Additional amounts may be
recovered for extra mileage or extra time spent serving the documents.
c. Fill out Service Instructions. Use either the process server's form or court
form CIV-615, Service Instructions. Explain in the Service Instructions
what papers are to be served and where they are to be served.
d. Give the process server the following:
(1) Service Instructions
(2) The service fee
(3) The summons
(4) A copy of the complaint
e. Proof of Service. When service is completed, the process server must give
you proof of service. This proof is called a “Return of Service.”2 It is a
notarized document that states who was served with the summons and
complaint and when and how they were served. If you have any questions
about the service, contact your process server.
IMPORTANT: You do not need to file the Return of Service with the court
at this time. Be sure to keep this document safe because you will need to
file it with the court if the defendant does not respond to the summons.
f. Once service is completed, read Section 4 on page 12 for instructions
on how to prepare the required Civil Rule 4(f) Affidavit.
2 Civil Rule 4(f)
CIV-106 (4/21) 2
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

2. SERVICE BY CERTIFIED MAIL3
Service by certified mail must be restricted delivery to the “Addressee Only” and
“Return Receipt Requested.” If you want to use certified mail, you must:
a. Prepare Envelope. See example on page 4 .
(1) Address the envelope to the defendant.
(2) Put your return address in the upper left corner.
(3) Put sufficient postage on the envelope to mail it by certified mail,
restricted delivery, return receipt requested.
b. Prepare Certified Mail Postal Forms. See examples on pages 4 and 5 .
(1) Fill out a Certified Mail Receipt. Be sure to include the total
postage amount.
(2) Attach the sticker portion next to the return address at the top of
the envelope. Leave the bottom “receipt” attached when you take it
to the Post Office. The post office clerk will give you the receipt.
Keep the receipt for your records.
(3) Beneath the certified mail sticker on the envelope, write "Return
Receipt Requested, Restricted Delivery."
(4) Fill out a green postal receipt card.
Front:
● Fill in your name and address so the card will be returned to
you.
● Write the case number in the lower left corner.
Back:
● In the "Article Addressed To" box, fill in the name and
address of the defendant, write "Restricted Delivery," and
write the total amount of postage and fees.
● In the "Article Number" box, write the certified mail number.
● In the "Service Type" box, check "Certified Mail."
● In the "Restricted Delivery" box, check “yes.”
(5) Attach the green card to the front of the envelope or on the back if
space does not permit it to be attached to the front.
c. Proof of Service
The green postal card will be returned to you when the defendant has
been served.
IMPORTANT: You do not need to file the green postal card with the court
at this time. Be sure to keep this document safe because you will need to
file it with the court if the defendant does not respond to the summons.
d. Once service is completed, read Section 4 on page 12 for instructions
on how to prepare the required Civil Rule 4(f) Affidavit.
3 Civil Rule 4(h)
CIV-106 (4/21) 3
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

33AANN--0088--333333 CCII 55//1144//0088
xxxxxxxx The Post Office or
xxxxxxxx www.usps.gov
xxxxxxxx can provide these
xxxxxxxx amounts.
xxxxxxxx
It is the customer’s
DDEEBBBBIIEE DDEEFFEENNDDAANNTT
responsibility to
11881100 MMIISSSSIIOONN RROOAADD verify the amount
AANNCCHHOORRAAGGEE AAKK 9999550011 of postage required
for mailing.
CIV-106 (4/21) 4
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

CHRIS PLAINTIFF
626 CIRCLE AVENUE
ANCHORAGE AK 99508-1234
3AN-08-333 CI
DEBBIE DEFENDANT
1810 MISSION ROAD
ANCHORAGE AK 99501
RESTRICTED DELIVERY X
Postage: $ xxxx
X
CIV-106 (4/21) 5
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

3. SERVICE BY POSTING OR OTHER ALTERNATIVE SERVICE
You can ask the court for permission to serve the defendant by posting on the
Alaska Court System’s legal notice website or other alternative service if you are
unable to locate the defendant. Before asking the court for permission to serve
the defendant by posting or other alternative service, you must show what
attempts you have made to locate the defendant. You are expected to exhaust
all reasonable attempts to locate the defendant. Unless otherwise ordered by
the court, you must include a reasonable effort to search the internet for the
whereabouts of the absent party. Examples of attempts you should make to
locate the defendant include, but are not limited to, the following:
• Attempt service by process server or certified mail if you know defendant’s
last known address or workplace.
• Contact any known relatives or friends of defendant.
• Contact defendant’s employer or last known employer.
• Check phone directories and city directories in all cities where you think
defendant may live.
• Contact the municipal (city) tax department in all cities where you think
defendant may live.
• Call telephone information and utility companies in all cities where you
think defendant may live.
• Contact the state motor vehicle registrar in Alaska and any other state
where you think defendant may live.
• Send a letter of inquiry to any person who you believe possesses
knowledge or information as to defendant’s whereabouts. You must
include a self-addressed, stamped envelope for the person to use to
respond.
• Contact the military locator service if you think the defendant is in the
military:
By phone: Air Force: (210) 565-2660
Navy: (866) 827-5672
Marines: (703) 784-3942 or (800) 268-3710
On the web: scra.dmdc.osd.mil/scra/
• Check the Internet. There are search engines as well as businesses
available on the Internet that may be able to assist you in locating people
throughout the United States. Also, you can access phone directories for
most cities in the United States through the Internet. Your local library
may be able to help you with this.
CIV-106 (4/21) 6
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

• If you believe the defendant may be in a state jail facility in Alaska, you
can contact the chief classification officer of the Department of
Corrections to find out where the defendant is being held. Phone number
of chief classification officer (Anchorage): (907) 269-7425.
Once you have exhausted all reasonable attempts to locate the defendant, you
can ask for service by posting on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice website
or other alternative service:
For service by posting on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice website:
a. Complete and file the following documents with the court:
(1) Request to Serve Defendant by Posting or Alternative Service and
Affidavit of Diligent Inquiry. (See sample on pages 8-11. You may
use court form CIV-145). In your Affidavit, you must list every
attempt you made to locate the defendant.
(2) Notice to Absent Defendant (form CIV-101), or in child’s change of
name cases, Notice to Absent Parent (form CIV-706).
(3) If you attempted to have defendant (or absent parent) served by
process server or by certified mail, attach copies of the Return of
Service or green postal card.
b. If the court finds your attempts sufficient, the clerk will be directed to sign
the Notice to Absent Defendant or Notice to Absent Parent.
c. The notice will then be posted on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice
website for four consecutive weeks.
d. Before the last week of posting, you must send a copy of the Notice and
the complaint by regular first class mail and registered or certified mail to
the defendant/parent at defendant’s/parent’s last known residence or
workplace. However, if you are unable to ascertain the
defendant's/parent’s last known mailing address, you must submit an
affidavit to that affect. See Civil Rule 4(e)(2). Immediately file an
Affidavit with the court showing that you have attempted service by
regular first class mail and registered or certified mail.
e. After the Notice has been posted, the clerk will complete a certificate of
service of posting to the Alaska Court System’s legal notice website.
f. Once service is completed, read Section 4 on page 12 for instructions
on how to prepare the required Civil Rule 4(f) Affidavit.
For all other alternative service (service other than personal service, mail service,
e-mail, posting on public bulletin boards, and posting to a social network
account) complete and file a Request to Serve Defendant by Posting or
Alternative Service, and Affidavit of Diligent Inquiry, attaching copies of the
Return of Service or green postal card proving that you already attempted to
serve the defendant/parent by process server or certified mail. (See sample on
pages 8-11. You may use court form CIV-145.) If the court finds your attempts
sufficient, a notice or order will be sent to you.
CIV-106 (4/21) 7
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
)
Plaintiff(s), )
vs. ) CASE NO. CI
)
) REQUEST TO SERVE DEFENDANT BY
) POSTING AND
Defendant(s). ) ALTERNATIVE SERVICE,
) AND AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY
REQUEST
I request the court’s permission to serve defendant (name)
under Civil Rule 4(e) by posting on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice website.
Additional alternative service:
AFFIDAVIT
I state the following upon oath or upon affirmation under penalty of perjury:
1. An action has been or is about to be commenced against the defendant.
2. Attempts to Serve Defendant. Attempts to serve the defendant with the summons and
complaint were made in the following manner:
Personal service by process server which was returned un-served because
(attach return):
Certified mail, restricted delivery, return receipt requested, sent on
to defendant's last known address:
It was returned un-served because (attach envelope):
Page 1 of 4
CIV-145 (11/17)(cs) Civil Rule 4(e)
REQUEST TO SERVE DEFENDANT BY POSTING OR
ALTERNATIVE SERVICE, AND AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY
CIV-106 (4/21) 8
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

3. Attempts to Locate Defendant. In addition to the above, in order to fulfill my obligation
to diligently inquire as to the defendant’s whereabouts and to serve the summons on
the defendant, I did the following (check only the boxes that apply):
a. I wrote to and/or questioned defendant’s friends and family:
Persons Contacted Relationship Results
b. I wrote to and/or questioned defendant’s current and previous employer(s):
Employers Contacted Results
c. I checked telephone directories and Polk city directories (available at the library),
and called telephone information as follows:
Directories Checked Results
d. I used a locate-and-research company (such as Accurint and Ingens) to find the
defendant:
Companies Contacted Results
e. I conducted people-finder research on the Internet:
Websites Researched Results
f. I checked Facebook and/or other online social networks with these results:
g. I sent the summons to the defendant by first class mail (not certified) to the
following address: on (date)
with the following results:
I enclosed postage sufficient for the return of an answer.
h. I checked with motor vehicle registrars in (cities):
with the following results:
Page 2 of 4
CIV-145 (11/17)(cs) Civil Rule 4(e)
REQUEST TO SERVE DEFENDANT BY POSTING OR
ALTERNATIVE SERVICE, AND AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY
CIV-106 (4/21) 9
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

i. I called utility companies as follows:
Companies Contacted City Results
j. I searched property tax listings as follows:
Communities Searched Results
k. I searched the Alaska Court System’s trial court records online
(https://records.courts.alaska.gov/) to find any cases involving the defendant.
Then I went to the courthouse to check the file(s) for a current address and
found the following:
l. I searched court records outside of Alaska with the following results:
Location of Courts Results
m. I searched recorded or filed documents at:
(1) the Recorder’s Office of the Alaska Department of Natural Resources
(http://dnr.alaska.gov/ssd/recoff/searchRO.cfm) with the following results:
(2) a recorder’s office outside of Alaska, located in
with the following results:
n. I searched business license information at:
(1) the Alaska Division of Corporations, Business, and Professional Licensing
(https://www.commerce.alaska.gov/web/cbpl/) with the following results:
(2) other local and state agencies outside of Alaska with the following results:
o. I believe the defendant may be in the military. Therefore, I contacted the
following military locator service(s):
Air Force: (210) 565-2660
Army: (888) 276-9472
Navy: (866) 827-5672
Marines: (703) 784-3942 or (800) 268-3710
Coast Guard: (866) 772-8724
with the following results:
Page 3 of 4
CIV-145 (11/17)(cs) Civil Rule 4(e)
REQUEST TO SERVE DEFENDANT BY POSTING OR
ALTERNATIVE SERVICE, AND AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY
CIV-106 (4/21) 10
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

p. Other:
4. The purpose of my inquiry was to give the defendant notice of the action in order that
the defendant may appear and defend it.
5. I believe other methods of service may be more likely to give the absent party notice
(publication in a print or online newspaper, e-mail, posting on the absent party’s social
network account, physically posting on the front door of an absent party’s place of
residence, any other appropriate methods). Therefore, I did the following:
After completing all the inquiries listed above, I do not know the whereabouts of the defendant,
and I do not know of any other sources of information through which I can learn the
whereabouts of the defendant.
Date Signature of Party or Attorney or Attorney’s Agent
Print or Type Name
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at , Alaska
on .
(date)
(SEAL) Clerk of Court, Notary Public, or other
person authorized to administer oaths/
My commission expires:
ORDER
It is ordered that:
(date) Clerk / Judge
Type or Print Name
Page 4 of 4
CIV-145 (11/17)(cs) Civil Rule 4(e)
REQUEST TO SERVE DEFENDANT BY POSTING OR
ALTERNATIVE SERVICE, AND AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY
CIV-106 (4/21) 11
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

4. CIVIL RULE 4(F) AFFIDAVIT
Within 120 days after you file your complaint, you must file an affidavit
identifying the defendants who have been served, the date service was made
and any defendants who remain unserved. Use form CIV-135, Civil Rule 4(f)
Affidavit (see page 13 ).
If you do not file this affidavit or if your affidavit states that you were unable to
serve one of the defendants, the clerk will send you a notice of intent to dismiss
the case as to the defendants not served. You will then have 30 days in which
to either
a. file a Civil Rule 4(f) Affidavit showing that all defendants have been
served; or
b. file a response explaining why you were unable to serve the defendants
and asking for additional time to attempt service.
If you do not respond to the clerk’s notice or if the court does not grant you
more time to serve the defendant, the case will be dismissed without prejudice4
as to those defendants who were not served.
4 A case dismissed “without prejudice” means that the case may be refiled.
CIV-106 (4/21) 12
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT _________________________
)
)
)
Plaintiff, )
vs. )
)
)
)
) CASE NO. CI
Defendant. )
) CIVIL RULE 4(f) AFFIDAVIT
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that the facts set out below are true to the best of my
personal knowledge:
1. I am the plaintiff. attorney of record for the plaintiff.
2. I filed the complaint in this case on .
3. A copy of the summons and complaint were served on the defendants as follows:
Name of Defendant Method of Service Date of Service
4. No defendant remains unserved.
The following defendants remain unserved:
Name of Defendant
Date Signature of Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s Attorney
Print Name
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at ,
Alaska on .
(SEAL) Clerk of Court, Notary Public, or other
person
authorized to administer oaths.
My commission expires
CIV-135 (12/00)(cs)
CIVIL RULE 4(f) AFFIDAVIT
CIV-106 (4/21) 13
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

5. WHAT IF?
a. What if service is unsuccessful?
Answer: If you are unable to serve the defendant by process server or by
certified mail, see Section 3 on page 6 on Service by Posting. This type
of service can be used if you are unable to locate the defendant or unable
to serve the defendant through regular process.
b. What if defendant is out of state?
Answer: A defendant may be served outside the state of Alaska by either:
• Certified mail, return receipt requested (see Section 2), or
• Personal service by process server (see Section 1). However, this
type of service must be made by a peace officer or a licensed
process server in that state. 5 To locate a peace officer or process
server in another state, contact your local troopers or call the
troopers’ Judicial Services office in Anchorage at (907) 264-0699.
In addition, if the law suit involves title to or a lien on real or personal
property within Alaska, service must also be made upon the person or
persons in possession or in charge of such property.6
c. What if defendant is outside the United States?
Answer: Serving a person outside the United States can be difficult. You
may wish to contact an attorney for help. You may serve a defendant
outside the United States by following Civil Rule 4(d)(13). Information
about the process is available at:
(1) the websites listed in the “Note to SCO 1570” following Civil Rule 4
in the Alaska Rules of Court, or
(2) on the following page of the court’s Self-Help Center website:
www.courts.alaska.gov/shc/family/shcinternat.htm
d. What if you do not know where the defendant is?
Answer: See Section 3 on page 6 on Service by Posting. This type of
service can be used if you are unable to locate the defendant.
5 Civil Rule 4(d)(12).
6 Civil Rule 4(d)(12).
CIV-106 (4/21) 14
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

APPENDIX A
Who Must Be Served?
IF DEFENDANT IS: WHO MUST BE SERVED:
Adult Individual The individual.
Civil Rule 4(d)(1)
Minor (Under Age 18) Both of the following:
1. The minor, and
2. The minor’s father, mother or legal guardian must
also be served with the summons.
NOTE: The minor must be personally served by a
process server. Civil Rule 4(h). See page 19 on how to
Civil Rule 4(d)(2)
address the summons.
Incompetent Person Both of the following:
1. The incompetent person. (Must be personally served
by a process server. Civil Rule 4(h).)
AND one of the following:
2. The guardian of the incompetent person or a
competent adult member of the person’s family with
whom the person resides or if the person is living in
an institution, then the director or chief executive
officer of the institution.
A copy of any written order appointing the guardian
or representative must be filed with the court.
See page 19 on how to address the summons.
Civil Rule 4(d)(3)
A Business that is Not a The owner of the business.
Corporation or a Partnership
CIV-106 (4/21) 15
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

IF DEFENDANT IS: WHO MUST BE SERVED:
A Domestic or Foreign One of the following:
Corporation 1. The registered agent.7
2. An officer of the corporation.8
3. A managing or general agent of the corporation.
4. Any other agent authorized by appointment or by law
to receive service of process.8
Civil Rule 4(d)(4) and See pages 19-20 about how to serve the Commissioner
AS 10.06.175 of DCED if there is no registered agent.
Limited Liability Company One of the following:
1. The registered agent.
2. A managing member.
3. A managing or general agent of the limited
liability company.
Civil Rule 4(d)(4) and 4. Any other agent authorized by appointment or by
AS 10.50.065 law to receive service of process.
Partnership One of the following:
1. One of the partners.
2. A general agent of the partnership.
3. A person having control of the business of the
partnership.
Civil Rule 4(d)(5)
4. Any other agent authorized by appointment or by
law to receive service of process.
Unincorporated Association One of the following:
1. An officer of the association.
2. A managing or general agent.
Civil Rule 4(d)(6) 3. Any other person authorized by appointment or by
law to receive service of process.
7 To find out if a business is a corporation and the name and address of the registered agent
and officers, contact the Department of Commerce, Community, and Economic
Development, P.O. Box 110808, Juneau, AK 99811-0808. Juneau phone: (907) 465-2530.
You can also look up this information on the Internet at the following web site:
https://www.commerce.alaska.gov/CBP/Main. Read the instructions for searching the
Corporations Database.
8 See, for example, AS 21.09.180 - .190 about insurance companies.
CIV-106 (4/21) 16
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

IF DEFENDANT IS: WHO MUST BE SERVED:
State of Alaska Summons must be sent by certified mail to the
Attorney General of Alaska at Juneau, Alaska.
If the case is filed in the Third Judicial District, a copy
of the summons must also be sent by certified mail to
the Chief of the Attorney General’s Office in Anchorage.
If the case is filed in the Fourth Judicial District, a copy
of the summons must also be sent by certified mail to
the Chief of the Attorney General’s Office in Fairbanks.
Civil Rule 4(d)((7)
Officer or Agency of the State Both of the following:
1. The State of Alaska as explained above.
2. To the officer or agency of the State.
Civil Rule 4(d)(8) If the agency is a corporation, see the corporations
section above for who to serve.
City, Borough, Town, School To one of the following officials:
District, Public Utility District
1. Chief executive officer.
or other Public Corporation
2. Chief clerk or secretary.
Civil Rule 4(d)(9)
A Prisoner The jail shift supervisor.
(in custody of Alaska
Address the summons to the defendant and fill out the
Commissioner of Corrections)
top half (through paragraph c) of CIV-140, Affidavit of
Proof of Service at Jail Facility. Mail (1) the summons,
(2) a copy of the complaint, (3) form CIV-140 and (4) a
stamped, self-addressed envelope to the jail shift
supervisor at the jail where the defendant is being
held. (You can mail these items to the jail by first class
mail. They do not need to be served by process server
or by certified mail.) The shift supervisor will personally
deliver the documents to the defendant, complete the
AS 09.05.050 bottom half of CIV-140 and return the form to you.
CIV-106 (4/21) 17
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

IF DEFENDANT IS: WHO MUST BE SERVED:
A Deceased Person The court-appointed personal representative for the
estate.
NOTE: The personal representative must be named as
the defendant on the complaint and the summons.
Example:
MARY SMITH, Personal Representative of
AS 13.16.350(c)
The Estate of JOHN SMITH, Deceased.
AS 13.16.020
Owner/Operator of Motor Commissioner of the Department of Administration.
Vehicle Who Is Not in Alaska
See page 21 about how to address the summons.
(These are claims resulting from
Within 10 days after serving the Commissioner, you
a motor vehicle accident in
must also send to the defendant, by certified mail, a
Alaska where the defendant was
copy of the summons and complaint and a notice about
the owner or operator of the
the service on the Commissioner.
motor vehicle and is out of the
state.)
AS 09.05.020 - .040
Contractor’s Bond Contact the Division of Occupational Licensing in
Juneau (465-2534) to find out if the bond is a surety
bond or a cash deposit, CD or savings account in lieu of
bond.9
Surety Bond. Send two copies of the summons and
complaint and a check for $25 by certified mail to:
Dept. of Commerce, Community & Economic Dev.
Director, Division of Insurance
PO Box 110805
Juneau, AK 99811-0805
Send a third copy of the summons and complaint by
certified mail to:
Dept. of Commerce, Community & Economic Dev.
Division of Professional Licensing
PO Box 110806
Juneau AK 99811-0806
Cash Deposit (or CD or Savings Account). Send one
copy of the summons and complaint by certified mail
to:
AS 08.18.071 - .081 Dept. of Commerce, Community & Economic Dev.
Director, Division of Professional Licensing
12 AAC 21.120 - .140
PO Box 110806
Juneau, AK 99811-0806
9 The Division of Professional Licensing can provide you with additional information about your
contractor's bond and about the procedures you must follow to make a claim against the
bond.
CIV-106 (4/21) 18
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

APPENDIX B
How to Address the Summons
You must fill out a separate summons for each defendant.
a. Adult Person.
Write the person's name on the "To Defendant" line.
b. Minor.
List both the minor and the minor's father or mother or legal guardian on the "To
Defendant" line. This summons must be served on both the minor and the
parent/guardian.
Example:
To Defendant: SEAN SMITH, a minor, through his parent HENRY SMITH.
If you are also suing the minor's parent/guardian, a separate summons must
also be sent to that person.
Example:
To Defendant: HENRY SMITH, Individually.
c. Incompetent Person.
List both the incompetent person and the person's representative on the "To
Defendant" line. This summons must be served on both the incompetent person
and the representative.
Example:
To Defendant: JANE ADAMS, an incompetent person, through her
representative, MARY KING
If you are also suing the representative, a separate summons must also be sent
to that person.
Example:
To Defendant: MARY KING, Individually.
d. Business Not a Corporation or Partnership.
Address the summons to the owner of the business.
Example:
To Defendant: JOHN J. MILLER, Owner, John's Record Shop
e. Corporation or Limited Liability Company.
Address the summons to the registered agent of the corporation or limited
liability company, or an officer of the corporation or the managing member of a
limited liability company. See page 16 .
Example:
To Defendant: TOM JONES, Registered Agent for World Fish Cannery, Inc.
E xample:
To Defendant: ROBERT ADAMS, Registered Agent for Blackstone
Investments, LLC.
CIV-106 (4/21) 19
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

If the corporation or limited liability company does not have a registered agent
or if the registered agent cannot be found at the registered office, the summons
can be served on the Commissioner of the Department of Commerce,
Community, and Economic Development as follows:10
Step 1 – Serve the Commissioner. The complaint must list only the corporation
or the limited liability company as the defendant, but the summons must be
addressed to both the corporation or the limited liability company and the
Commissioner.
Example:
To Defendant: ACME GRAVEL, INC., a corporation with no registered
agent, through the Commissioner for the Department of
Commerce, Community, and Economic Development.
Example:
To Defendant: BLACKSTONE INVESTMENTS, LLC, a limited liability
company with no registered agent, through the
Commissioner for the Department of Commerce,
Community, and Economic Development.
You must send a $25 check or money order (payable to the Department of
Commerce, Community, and Economic Development) along with the summons
and complaint. 11
Step 2 – Mail Notice to Corporation or Limited Liability Company. Also send to
the defendant, via certified mail, a copy of the summons and complaint and a
notice that explains to defendant that service is being made on the
Commissioner as authorized by statute. Mail these items to the corporation or
the limited liability company at both (a) the address of the last registered office
of the corporation or limited liability company; and (b) the address you believe is
most likely to result in actual notice.
Step 3 – File Proof with Court. Then file an affidavit with the court affirming that
you have complied with the requirements of AS 10.06.175 for corporations or AS
10.50.065 for limited liability companies.
f. Partnership.
Address the summons to a partner or agent. See page 16 .
Example:
To Defendant: MIKE MILLER, Partner, Century Apartment Properties.
10 AS 10.06.175 (corporations) or AS 10.05.065 (limited liability companies)
11 3 AAC 16.090 (Alaska Administrative Code)
CIV-106 (4/21) 20
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

g. Unincorporated Association.
Address the summons to an officer or agent. See page 16.
Example:
To Defendant: BOB BLACK, President, Blue Ridge Condominium
Association.
h. Owner/Operator of Motor Vehicle Who is Not in Alaska.
If your lawsuit involves a motor vehicle accident in Alaska and the defendant is
the owner or operator of the vehicle and if the defendant is now outside Alaska,
Alaska Statutes 09.05.020 - .040 describe how to serve the defendant.
Step 1 - Serve the Commissioner. The complaint must list the owner/operator’s
name as defendant, but the summons must be addressed to both the defendant
and the Commissioner of the Department of Administration.
Example:
To Defendant: JACK E. SMITH, operator of motor vehicle and not in
Alaska, through the Commissioner of Administration.
Step 2 – Mail Notice to Defendant. Within 10 days after the date of service on
the Commissioner, send to the defendant, by certified mail, a copy of the
summons and complaint and a notice that explains to defendant that service is
being made on the Commissioner as authorized by statute. If the defendant is
outside the United States, refer to Section 5 c. on page 14 of this booklet for
more information.
Step 3 – File Proof with Court. Then file an affidavit with the court describing the
service and attaching copies of the documents and the post office receipt. See
AS 09.05.020(d).
i. Contractor's Bond.
In the caption of the summons and complaint, the bond must be listed as the
defendant. The "name" to use for the bond is the name of the surety (insurance
company) or bank plus the number of the bond or CD (certificate of deposit) or
savings account. Also include in the caption (after the bond number) the name
of the contractor for whom the bond was issued and the contractor's license
number.12
Address the summons as follows:
(1) Surety Bond.
Example:
To Defendant: Acme Insurance Co., Bond No. 123456 (written for Bob's
Builders, Contractor License # xxx) through the Director of
the Division of Insurance.
12 If the bond is a cash deposit with the state, you can name the "defendant" as follows:
"Cash deposit in trust with the State of Alaska, Department of Commerce, Community, and
Economic Development, Receipt Number 123456, deposited in lieu of bond by Bob's
Builders, Contractor License # xxx."
CIV-106 (4/21) 21
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS

(2) CD or Savings Passbook.
Example:
To Defendant: First Bank of Alaska, CD No. 123456 (filed in lieu of
bond by Bob's Builders, Contractor License #xxx)
through the Director of the Division of Professional
Licensing.
(3) Cash Deposit.
Example:
To Defendant: State Trust Account, Receipt No. 123456 (deposited
in lieu of bond by Bob's Builders, Contractor License
# xxx) through the Director of the Division of
Professional Licensing.
NOTE: If you are suing the contractor as well as the bond, your complaint must
list both the contractor and the bond as defendants, and you must serve both
the contractor and the bond with separate summonses.
CIV-106 (4/21) 22
HOW TO SERVE A SUMMONS