IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
DOB )
)
Plaintiff, )
vs. )
DOB )
)
DOB ) CASE NO.
)
Defendant(s). )
ANSWER TO FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER (EVICTION) COMPLAINT
1. Plaintiff has filed an action to evict me from the property I am renting.
I ADMIT that plaintiff is entitled to evict me.
I DENY that plaintiff is entitled to evict me for the reasons explained in the
defenses below.
2. Plaintiff has filed claims for unpaid rent and damages against me.
a. Rent.
I ADMIT that I owe plaintiff $ for rent.
I DENY that I owe plaintiff rent for the reasons explained in the defenses
below.
b. Damages.
I ADMIT that I owe plaintiff $ for damages.
I DENY that I owe plaintiff any money for damages.
3. Defenses. I believe I have the following defenses:
a. The eviction notice (“Notice to Quit”) was improper because:
b. Plaintiff refused to accept the payment I offered or refused to allow me to fix the
problem.
c. The amount of rent claimed is incorrect because:
(1) Rent is not owed in the amount claimed because plaintiff has failed to
provide essential services or meet other obligations under the Landlord
Tenant Act.
(2) The following amounts were not credited to my account:
d. No damage was done to the rental property beyond ordinary wear and tear.
e. The rental property was fully cleaned prior to departure.
Page 1 of 2 Civil Rules 7-16 and 85
AS 34.03.070(d), & .160 - .210
AS 09.45.100 - .120
CIV-735 (8/21)(cs)
ANSWER TO F.E.D (EVICTION) COMPLAINT

4. Counterclaims. The plaintiff owes me $ an amount to be determined
at trial, for the following reasons:
a. Plaintiff entered my home without notice or my permission times, and I
am entitled to statutory damages under AS 34.03.300(b) of at least one month’s
rent for each unlawful entry.
b. Plaintiff’s failure to maintain a habitable dwelling reduced the value of the rental
property. Plaintiff failed to make the following repairs or supply the following
services:
Rent should be reduced to $ per month.
c. Plaintiff has refused to return or account for the security deposit of $
and I am entitled to the deposit and statutory damages under AS 34.03.070.
d. Other
5. Request for Relief. I seek the following relief:
a. The court deny plaintiff’s claims.
b. Actual and statutory damages in an amount to be proven at trial.
c. My costs and attorney fees.
d. Other relief as may be just and appropriate
Date Signature of Defendant
Printed Name
Mailing Address City State ZIP
Daytime Contact or Message Phone Email*
* I authorize the court to email me court documents in this case to the email address above.
Page 2 of 2 Civil Rules 7-16 and 85
AS 34.03.070(d), & .160 - .210
AS 09.45.100 - .120
Certificate of Service
I am filing this document through the court’s TrueFiling program and will fill out the
Certificate of Service through that program.
I certify that on at [date/time] I gave a copy of this document to
each plaintiff by:
Mail Hand-Delivery
Email (only if plaintiff(s) agreed to email service in the complaint)
Signature:
CIV-735 (8/21)(cs)
ANSWER TO F.E.D (EVICTION) COMPLAINT