IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
DOB )
)
Plaintiff(s), )
vs. ) CASE NO. CI
DOB )
) COMPLAINT FOR FORCIBLE ENTRY
DOB ) AND DETAINER
) (Seeking Eviction:
Defendant(s). ) May Include Rent and/or Damages)
1. Plaintiffs seek possession of the following real property, hereinafter referred to as "the
premises:”
Description:
(house, apartment, trailer, trailer space, etc.)
Location:
(street address, apartment number, trailer space number, city and state)
2. Plaintiffs are individuals and own the premises.
Plaintiff is a partnership that owns the premises.
Plaintiff is a manager or management company legally authorized in writing by the
owner of the premises to manage the premises and bring this action, and is
represented by an attorney.
Plaintiff is a corporation, owns the premises, has paid its taxes due the state and
filed its required reports, and is represented by an attorney.
Plaintiff is the representative of a non-profit public housing corporation that owns
the premises, proceeding without an attorney pursuant to AS 09.45.158.
Plaintiff(s) is/are individual(s) who leased the premises to defendant(s).
3. Defendants took possession of the premises pursuant to:
A rental agreement, lease or other written agreement dated
A verbal agreement made on: (date)
Other:
4. Defendants failed to pay rent when due, or failed to comply with requirements of the
rental agreement or requirements of law, and a Notice describing the problem has been
served on defendants. A copy of the Notice is attached to this complaint.
5. Defendants failed to pay the past due rent specified in the Notice or cure the condition
specified in the Notice within the time provided by the Notice.
Page 1 of 2 AS 09.45.070 et seq.
CIV-730 (4/20)(cs) AS 34.03.010 et seq.
F.E.D. COMPLAINT Civil Rule 85

6. Defendants remain in possession of the premises.
7. Defendants owe plaintiffs for:
Past due rent of $ and further rent to the date the defendant vacates
the premises.
Other damages, in an amount to be proved in court, not to exceed (check only one
of the following boxes):
$1,000 (one thousand dollars)
$5,000 (five thousand dollars)
$________ (specify other amount)
Type or nature of other damages:
PLAINTIFFS SEEK RELIEF AS FOLLOWS (check all that apply):
A. Judgment for Possession, restoring the property to plaintiffs.
B. Issuance of a Writ of Assistance.
C. Judgment for rent due.
D. Judgment for other damages set forth above.
E. Judgment for plaintiffs' costs and attorney fees in this action.
I am attaching a copy of the Notice to Quit.
Initials
NOTICE: If (i) this case has been pending for more than 180 days from the date the complaint
was filed, and (ii) no further trial or hearing is scheduled to take place in the case, and (iii) no
application for default judgment has been filed, then the court may dismiss this case for want of
prosecution without further notice or order. If this happens, a party has the right to reopen this
case no later than one year after dismissal by making a request to the court clerk in writing.
Print Name Signature Date
Mailing Address City State ZIP
Phone Email*
* I authorize the court to email me court documents in this case to the email address above.
Attach a copy of the Notice to Quit
Page 2 of 2 AS 09.45.070 et seq.
CIV-730 (4/20)(cs) AS 34.03.010 et seq.
F.E.D. COMPLAINT Civil Rule 85