Superior Court Misc Petition | CISQI
IN THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
Petitioner )
)
) Case No. CI
)
Respondent Minor ) PETITION FOR
) QUARANTINE* ISOLATION*
[AS 18.15.385(d) or equivalent local ordinance]
Petitioner Name:
Petitioner Title:
Petitioner Agency:
1. I am the petitioner named above. I am authorized to petition the court on behalf of
the Alaska Department of Health Services, Division of Public Health
the following municipality or municipal agency:
The local ordinance that authorizes this application is:
2. I ask the court for an order to quarantine isolate Respondent for days, because
this is the least restrictive alternative necessary to prevent the spread of a contagious or
possibly contagious disease. I also request a hearing on this petition:
within 48 hours. .
3. A medical officer from the State of Alaska or local municipality determined that Respondent
has or may have was exposed to or may have been exposed to
this contagious disease: .
4. Respondent poses a significant risk to the public health.
[If the following box is checked, this petition must be signed by a medical officer.]
An emergency (24-hour) administrative order was issued pursuant to
AS 18.15.385(e). .
Emergency action was necessary to prevent the transmission to others of a disease that
poses a significant risk to the public health.
*AS 18.15.395 Definitions:
• “Quarantine” applies to “individuals who may have been exposed to a contagious or possibly
contagious disease and who do not show signs or symptoms of a contagious disease.”
• “Isolation” applies to individuals who are “infected or reasonably believed to be infected with a
contagious or possibly contagious disease.”
NOTE: You may use this petition to request both types of physical separation (for example, in the event
that Respondent must switch from quarantine to isolation during the separation period), however, you
must make clear the current status of Respondent’s infection or exposure in sections 3, 10, and 12 of
this form, as well as the accompanying affidavit.
Page 1 of 4 AS 18.15.385
CIV-794 (8/23) 45 CFR § 164.312
PETITION and AFFIDAVIT FOR QUARANTINE/ISOLATION ORDER

5. Testing, screening, examination, treatment, or related procedures
are not necessary. are necessary as follows:
6. A medical officer determined that quarantine, isolation, or related procedures described
below are necessary in the case of Respondent, based on the following facts:
7. Respondent is under age 18. Parent’s or legal guardian’s name and address:
Name: Phone:
Address:
Email:
Respondent is an adult and has a legal guardian. Guardian’s name and address:
Name: Phone:
Address:
Email:
8. Respondent or Respondent’s legal guardian:
does not consent to quarantine or isolation.
cannot be reached to give consent to quarantine or isolation.
lacks the capacity to consent or object to quarantine or isolation, because:
9. Respondent is unable or unwilling to behave so as not to expose other people to infection.
10. Respondent is currently quarantined in isolation at this location:
Respondent is not currently quarantined or in isolation. I request that the court
order a peace officer to deliver Respondent to the premises described in section 11 for
quarantine or isolation until a hearing is held.
11.The premises subject to quarantine or isolation are as follows:
Respondent will be confined to home at this address:
Instead of home, Respondent will be confined to the premises at this address:
because these exceptional circumstances prevent confinement at Respondent’s home:
Page 2 of 4 AS 18.15.385
CIV-794 (8/23) 45 CFR § 164.312
PETITION and AFFIDAVIT FOR QUARANTINE/ISOLATION ORDER

12. Quarantine Isolation should be required starting on:
Date: Time:
13.When isolating or quarantining Respondent, the State or Municipality will adhere to the
following conditions and standards:1
a. Isolation and quarantine will be by the least restrictive means necessary to prevent the
spread of a contagious or possibly contagious disease that poses a significant and
immediate risk to public health.
b. Isolation and quarantine may include confinement to private homes or other private and
public premises. Unless there are exceptional circumstances that would jeopardize
public health, Respondent will be allowed to choose confinement in Respondent’s home.
c. If isolated, Respondent will be confined separately from quarantined persons.
d. If quarantined, and Respondent subsequently becomes infected or is reasonably
believed to have become infected with a contagious or possibly contagious disease,
Respondent will be promptly removed to isolation.
e. The health status of Respondent will be monitored regularly to determine whether
continued isolation or quarantine is required.
f. Any isolation and quarantine order will be immediately terminated when Respondent
poses no substantial risk of transmitting a contagious or possibly contagious disease to
other persons. The court will be promptly notified of the termination date and time.
g. The needs of Respondent shall be addressed in a systematic and competent fashion,
including, but not limited to, providing adequate food, clothing, shelter, means of
external communication, medication, and competent medical care.
h. Premises will be maintained in a safe and hygienic manner and designed to minimize
the likelihood of further transmission of infection or other harms to Respondent.
i. To the extent possible, Respondent’s cultural and religious beliefs will be considered
in addressing Respondent’s needs, and in establishing and maintaining the premises.
j. Any adverse effects on Respondent’s family of isolating or quarantining Respondent
will be considered, and appropriate arrangements made to mitigate these effects.
14.This petition is accompanied by an affidavit
on the next page of this form. by separate filing.
[You are not required to use the template on page 4, but the accompanying affidavit must
comply with the requirements of AS 18.15.385(d)(2) or any equivalent local ordinance.]
Date Signature of Petitioner
Phone: After-Hours Phone:
Fax: Email:
Mailing Address:
PLEASE NOTE: This petition may not be filed through the Court’s electronic filing system
(TrueFiling). This petition may be filed by U.S. mail or in person, or by fax or HIPAA-compliant
email as permitted by the local court. For specific addresses, fax numbers, and filing
information, please see the court directory at https://courts.alaska.gov/courtdir/index.htm.
1 Subections (g) – (j) are required for orders issued pursuant to Anchorage Municipal Code 3.80.065(G).
Page 3 of 4 AS 18.15.385
CIV-794 (8/23) 45 CFR § 164.312
PETITION and AFFIDAVIT FOR QUARANTINE/ISOLATION ORDER

AFFIDAVIT IN SUPPORT OF
PETITION FOR QUARANTINE OR ISOLATION OF
Full name of Respondent
I, [full name], do solemnly swear or
affirm that the following facts are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
1. I am a medical officer for
the Alaska Department of Health Services, Division of Public Health, and I am authorized
to file a quarantine or isolation petition under AS 18.15.385.
[name of municipality or agency], and I am authorized to file a quarantine or isolation petition
under [local ordinance number].
My Title/Position:
I have the following relevant qualifications and certifications:
2. All of the facts alleged in the petition are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
3. I believe that Respondent has or may have been infected with has been exposed to
the following contagious disease: , because:
4. I believe that Respondent is unable or unwilling to behave in a way that will not expose
others to the danger of infection, because:
5. I want the court to know these additional facts that support the filing of this petition:
[Attach additional pages if necessary. Only write on one side of the page.]
Date Signature
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at , Alaska on .
Court clerk, notary public, or other person
authorized to administer oaths.
My commission expires:
Page 4 of 4 AS 18.15.385
CIV-794 (8/23) 45 CFR § 164.312
PETITION and AFFIDAVIT FOR QUARANTINE/ISOLATION ORDER