IN THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA AT
In the Matter of a Change of Name for:
[Minor child’s current legal name]
By
[Name of petitioner (parent or legal guardian)]
Case No.:
REQUEST TO WAIVE POSTING IN CHILD’S CHANGE OF NAME CASE
1. I am the petitioner in this case. I ask the Court to not post the minor child’s proposed name
change and hearing date on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice website, as is normally
required by Civil Rule 84(b), because I have concerns about the child’s personal safety.
2. I also ask the Court to:
a. make this case confidential sealed under Administrative Rule (Ad. R.) 37.6.
b. show my name the child’s name on the public index (CourtView) as “Not
Published,” because this case involves matters of a sensitive and highly personal
nature, and publication of the name(s) could expose me, the child, or another
person to harassment, injury, ridicule, or personal embarrassment. Ad. R. 40(b).
c. show my name the child’s name on the public index (CourtView) as “Not
Published” for 5 years, because publication of the name(s) is likely to result in
substantial physical harm to me, the child, or members of our household. I
understand that after 5 years, I need to file this request again if I want to extend
the non-disclosure of the name(s). Ad. R. 40(c).
[If any of the requests in this section are granted, the case will not appear on public
CourtView and will not be searchable by the public. If a case is confidential or sealed, the
paper court file is also unavailable to the public.]
3. My reasons for making the request(s) above are:
[The judge needs to know your reasons to be able to grant your request(s). If you made a
request in section 2, the judge must also find that you have a reason to keep your case
private that is different than the general privacy reason anyone in a name change case
would have, and that your reason outweighs the public interest in seeing court records.]
4. My Full Mailing Address:
My Phone: My Email:
Verification
I swear or affirm that I read this document and believe all statements in it are true.
Date: Your Signature:
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at , Alaska on
(SEAL)
Court clerk, notary public, or other person authorized
to administer oaths. My commission expires
Clerk Instructions: If this form is filed at case initiation, open case as a “Not Published-Change of Name” case type.
If case is already pending, leave case type as is until receipt of judicial order. If box 2b or 2c is checked, immediately
route request to the presiding judge.
Page 1 of 2
CIV-709 (10/22) Civ. R. 84; Admin. R. 37.6;
REQUEST TO WAIVE POSTING IN CHILD’S CHANGE OF NAME CASE Adm. R. 40(b) & (c); AS 09.55.010

1. Order on Waiver of Posting
A hearing on the above request was held on [date].
No hearing was held on the above request.
The petitioner’s request to waive posting is
GRANTED. An Order for Hearing, Posting and Additional Service (form CIV-701)
will be issued. The petitioner’s name change request will not be posted.
DENIED. An Order for Hearing, Posting and Additional Service (form CIV-701) will
be issued in 10 days, to give the petitioner time to withdraw the petition if desired.
2. Order on Case Confidentiality ( Not requested)
The request to limit access to case records per Ad. R. 37.6 is DENIED. The petitioner’s
interest in confidentiality does not outweigh the public interest in access to court records.
The request to limit access to case records per Ad. R. 37.6 is GRANTED and this case
file shall be made confidential. sealed. The petitioner’s interest in confidentiality
outweighs the public interest in access. The particular basis in this case for limiting
access, and what distinguishes it from the confidentiality interests of persons affected by
disclosure in similar case types, is:
3. Other Findings/Orders:
Recommended:
by Master on Judge Date
I certify that on , a copy of this order
was distributed to the petitioner. Clerk: Type or Print Name
4. Order on Removal of Party Name(s) from the Public Index ( Not requested)
Removal of the petitioner’s child’s name from the public index is DENIED. The
public interest in disclosure outweighs the parties’ interest in protection of the name(s).
Removal of the petitioner’s child’s name from the public index is GRANTED
under Ad. R. 40(b). 40(c). The parties’ interest in protection of the name(s)
outweighs the public interest in disclosure. The particular basis for protecting the
name(s) in this case, as distinguished from the interest in protecting the names of
persons in similar case types, is:
The clerk shall substitute “Not Published” for the party name(s) on the public index.
For cases under Ad. R. 40(c) only, this substitution shall last for five years. After five
years, the name(s) will appear on the public index unless the presiding judge orders the
name(s) protected for a longer time upon another request.
Date Presiding Judge Type or Print Name
I certify that on , I distributed a copy of this order to the petitioner. Clerk: Presiding Judge Date
Clerk Instructions:
• If request in section 2 is GRANTED, add docket TF325 (if confidential) or TF330 (if sealed).
• If request in section 4 is DENIED, and the case is currently “Not Published-Change of Name” case type, wait 13
days from date of service. After that, if request is still denied, change case type to public “Change of Name.”
• If request in section 4 is GRANTED, and the case is currently a public “Change of Name,” immediately change
case type to “Not Published-Change of Name.”
Page 2 of 2
CIV-709 (10/22) Civ. R. 84; Admin. R. 37.6;
REQUEST TO WAIVE POSTING IN CHILD’S CHANGE OF NAME CASE Adm. R. 40(b) & (c); AS 09.55.010