CIV530 (CV)
IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
)
Plaintiff(s), )
vs. )
)
)
)
) CASE NO.
Defendant(s). )
) NOTICE OF GARNISHMENT AND
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO EXEMPTIONS
To: [name of judgment debtor]
On [date], the court entered a judgment that you
must pay to the sum of $ .
Since you have not paid this judgment, the court issued an order (called a Writ of Execution for
Garnishment of Earnings) that requires your employer to give the court part of your earnings
each payday until the judgment is paid.
Automatic Exemption
Only part of your earnings can be seized to pay your debt. The rest is protected by law
(exempt) from seizure. If you receive your earnings (wages, salary, commissions, etc.) either
weekly, every two weeks, or monthly, then $473 per week or 75% of your weekly
"disposable earnings" (whichever is more) is automatically exempt (protected from seizure).
• If you are paid monthly, your weekly earnings are determined by dividing your monthly
earnings by 4.3. If you are paid twice a month, your weekly earnings are determined by
dividing your semi-monthly earnings by 2.17.
• "Disposable earnings" means the money left after subtracting any amounts required by
law to be withheld (for example, taxes or unemployment insurance)
• If you are not a resident of Alaska, then either 30 times the federal minimum hourly
wage per week or 75% of your weekly "disposable earnings," whichever is larger, is
automatically exempt.
Note: Your automatic exemption is less than this if the judgment against you is for child
support, the payment of an employee's wages (up to one month's earnings), state or local
taxes, or payment to a victim of a felony committed by you.
If you do not receive your income weekly, every two weeks, or monthly, see the discussion of
the "liquid asset" exemption on the next page.
Page 1 of 2 AS 09.38.030-.065
CIV-530 (8/24) USC § 1673
NOTICE OF GARNISHMENT AND NOTICE OF RIGHT TO EXEMPTIONS 8 AAC 95.030

How to Request an Increased Exemption
The automatic exemption described above may be increased to $743 per week if you give the
court an affidavit (a sworn written statement) stating, under penalty of perjury, that your
earnings alone (and not anyone else's) support your household.
You can use the attached Claim of Exemption from Garnishment (form CIV-531) to do this. Fill
out the form, sign it in front of a notary public or court clerk, and file it with the court at the
following address within 15 days from the date you receive this notice:
Clerk of Court
You can also use the claim form if you believe your employer has not calculated your automatic
exemption correctly.
If you file the Claim of Exemption form, the court may hold a hearing to determine if you are
entitled to the increased exemption. You will be notified of this hearing. You will have to
attend the hearing and prove your right to the increased exemption. If this hearing is held in a
city other than where you live and it is too inconvenient or expensive for you to attend the
hearing in person, you may ask the court to move the hearing to another city more convenient
to you or hold the hearing by telephone or Zoom (use form TF-710 or form TF-718, both
available at https://courts.alaska.gov/forms/index2.htm#tf).
YOU MUST FILE YOUR CLAIM WITHIN 15 DAYS.
"Liquid Asset" Exemption
If you do not get paid either weekly, semi-monthly (twice a month), or monthly, you can ask for
a maximum exemption of $1,890 for the total value of cash and other liquid assets available to
you in any month. "Liquid assets" include deposits, securities, notes, drafts, accrued vacation
pay, refunds, prepayments, and receivables. AS 09.38.030(b). You do not automatically get this
exemption. You must claim it if you believe you are entitled to it. To claim it, file a Claim of
Exemption from Garnishment (form CIV-531) with the court as described above.
Other Information
Read more about the earnings exemption and the liquid asset exemption in the Judgment Debtor
Booklet (form CIV-511), available at all state courthouses and online at ak-courts.info/civ511.
Court forms are available online at https://courts.alaska.gov/forms/index.htm.
The judgment creditor may collect interest on the judgment and costs from the date the writ
was issued using a supplemental notice or supplemental writ, after the total amount stated on
the original writ has been paid.
Note: Federal law prohibits employers from discharging any employee because the employee's
earnings have been garnished for any one indebtedness. 15 USC § 1674.
Please type or print:
Name of Creditor's Attorney (if any) Name of Judgment Creditor
Address: Address:
Page 2 of 2 AS 09.38.030-.065
CIV-530 (8/24) USC § 1673
NOTICE OF GARNISHMENT AND NOTICE OF RIGHT TO EXEMPTIONS 8 AAC 95.030