IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
Plaintiff(s), )
vs. )
)
)
)
) CASE NO.
Defendant(s). )
) REPORT OF PARTIES' PLANNING
MEETING
Pretrial Scheduling Conference date: Judge assigned:
Type of action:
The parties' planning meeting was held and attended by:
for
for
for
1. Issues. Preliminary joint statement of issues: (Include separate statements where
parties disagree.)
2. Initial Disclosures. The initial disclosures required by Civil Rule 26(a)(1)
have been exchanged will be exchanged by
The parties agree that supplementations under Rule 26(e) will be due at the following
times or intervals:
.
3. Discovery Plan. The parties jointly propose to the court the following discovery plan:
a. Subjects. Brief description of subjects on which discovery will be needed:
b. Deadline. All discovery must be commenced in time to be completed by
except that discovery on the following issues must be
completed by the dates shown.
Issues for Early Discovery Deadline for Completion
Page 1 of 4
CIV-203 (2/03)(cs) Civil Rules 26(f) and 16(b)
REPORT OF PARTIES' PLANNING MEETING

c. Limits.
(1) Interrogatories. Civil Rule 33(a) allows each party to serve a maximum of
30 interrogatories upon any other party. Responses are due 30 days
after service. The parties stipulate to the following changes in these
limits:
No change.
Maximum of interrogatories.
Responses due days after service.
(2) Requests for Admission. Civil Rule 36 does not limit the number of
requests for admission that each party may serve. Responses are due 30
days after service. The parties stipulate to the following changes:
No change.
Maximum of requests for admission.
Responses due days after service.
(3) Depositions. Civil Rule 30(a) allows each side to depose the following
persons as a matter of right: other parties; independent experts
expected to be called at trial; treating physicians; document custodians;
and any three other persons. The depositions of a party, expert witness,
or treating physician may not exceed six hours. Other depositions may
not exceed three hours. Civil Rule 30(d)(2). The parties stipulate to the
following changes in these limits:
No change.
may depose the following additional witnesses:
Deposition of not to exceed hours.
d. Other Provisions of Discovery Plan.
4. Trial.
a. Complete either (1) or (2). (You must tell the judge when the case will be ready
for trial or for a trial setting conference. Civil Rule 16(b)(1)(G).)
(1) The case will be ready for trial by
Estimated trial time ("Trial time" for any party includes the party's
opening statement, closing argument, and direct and cross-examination
of all witnesses.):
Plaintiff(s) days
Defendant(s) days
Other parties days
(2) Trial cannot be scheduled now because
The case will be ready for a trial setting conference by
Page 2 of 4
CIV-203 (2/03)(cs) Civil Rules 26(f) and 16(b)
REPORT OF PARTIES' PLANNING MEETING

b. Jury trial requested not requested disputed.
Explain:
5. Proposed Pretrial Deadlines.
Plaintiff(s) Defendant(s)
a. Joinder of parties
b. Amendment of pleadings
c. Preliminary witness lists
d. Expert witness lists under
Rule 26(a)(2)(A)
e. Expert reports under
Rule 26(a)(2)(B)
f. Dispositive motions
g. Other motions
h. Final witness lists under
Rule 26(a)(3)
i. Final exhibit lists under
Rule 26(a)(3)
j. Objections under Rule 26(a)(3): days after disclosure of relevant list.
6. Settlement.
a. The parties have discussed the possibilities for a prompt settlement or resolution of
the case, including the following alternative dispute resolution procedures (check all
that apply):
settlement conference
mediation
non-binding arbitration
other:
Comments:
b. Settlement Conference.
The parties request a settlement conference.
The parties agree that the deadline for requesting a settlement conference will
be:
Other:
c. Mediation.
The parties request appointment of a mediator under Civil Rule 100.
The parties agree that the deadline for requesting appointment of a mediator
will be:
Other:
7. Pretrial Scheduling Conference. The parties waive do not waive a
conference with the court before entry of the scheduling order. (Note: The judge may
hold a pretrial scheduling conference notwithstanding the parties' waiver. Parties should
plan to attend the conference unless otherwise notified by the court.)
Page 3 of 4
CIV-203 (2/03)(cs) Civil Rules 26(f) and 16(b)
REPORT OF PARTIES' PLANNING MEETING

8. Other Orders. (List any other orders that should be entered by the court under Rule
26(c) (protective orders) or Rule 16(b) and (c) (pretrial orders).)
Date Signature of Attorney/Unrepresented Party
Type or Print Name
Representing
Date Signature of Attorney/Unrepresented Party
Type or Print Name
Representing
Date Signature of Attorney/Unrepresented Party
Type or Print Name
Representing
Instructions: Attorneys of record and unrepresented parties are jointly responsible
for attempting in good faith to agree on a proposed discovery plan and for
submitting to the court within 10 days after the meeting a written report outlining
the plan. Civil Rule 26(f).
Page 4 of 4
CIV-203 (2/03)(cs) Civil Rules 26(f) and 16(b)
REPORT OF PARTIES' PLANNING MEETING