Change of Name | CICON
IN THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA AT
In the Matter of the Change of Name for: )
)
, )
Petitioner. [Write your current legal name.] )
Date of Birth: ) CASE NO.
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME
[Write your current name (and any former name) exactly as it appears on official documents.
If there are any differences, including punctuation marks, you may not be able to change
identification documents to your new name.]
I, the petitioner, request that the court enter a judgment changing my name as follows:
1. My current legal name is:
First Name Middle Name Last Name
2. I want to take and be legally known by a new name, which is:
First Name Middle Name Last Name
3. I request a court order to change my birth certificate to the new name in section 2.
[Only complete this section if you want to change your name on your birth
certificate. Please note that birth certificates should not be amended to reflect a
married surname. If the court grants your request, you must still contact Alaska
Vital Records to complete further steps. If your birth certificate was issued in a
state other than Alaska, contact that state directly for instructions. See form
CIV-699 for more details.]
My current legal name is exactly the same as the name on my birth certificate.
My current legal name is different than the name on my birth certificate. The name
on my birth certificate is:
First Name Middle Name Last Name
4. The reasons for this request for a change of name are: [Attach more pages if needed.]
5. This name change is not to avoid judgments, debts, or obligations. It is not intended to
hinder or obstruct law enforcement, and it would not defraud anyone or interfere with
another person’s rights. The reasons stated are consistent with the public interest.
6. I have a guardian or conservator appointed for me in case no.
I have have not told my guardian/conservator I am filing for a name change.
7. I am currently charged with a crime in case no.
8. I am currently incarcerated (for example, in jail, in prison, or at a halfway house).
9. I am currently on supervised felony probation or on parole for a criminal conviction.
10. I am required to register as a sex offender or child kidnapper under AS 12.63.010.
Page 1 of 3
CIV-700 (7/25) Civil Rule 84
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME AS 09.55.010

11. Other Requests: [Attach more pages if needed.]
Verification
Sign this in front of a notary. A court clerk can provide this notary service for you for free.
Bring a photo ID with you for the notarization. If you do not have access to a notary or court
clerk, you may fill out and attach Self Certification (No Notary Available) (form TF-835).
I state on oath or affirm that I read this document and believe all statements in it are true.
Date Petitioner’s Signature
Full Mailing Address:
Email: Phone:
By providing an email address, I agree that the court can send me court documents at
this email address.
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at on
(SEAL) Court clerk, notary public, or other person
authorized to administer oaths.
My commission expires
Use of TrueFiling
(Administrative Bulletin No. 92 - AB 92)
1. See if TrueFiling is available for your case type and court location at ak-courts.info/tfcourts.
2. If available, you must use TrueFiling unless you are exempt. You are exempt if one of
these applies:
• You are in a jail or correctional facility.
• You have a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
• You do not have safe access to a computer, internet, or email.
• You cannot access the help you need to use TrueFiling.
• You have a language barrier or are Limited English Proficient.
You do not need to prove you are exempt. If you are exempt and you choose not to use
TrueFiling, check and sign the text box below. If you sign below, you can only give documents
to the court by mail or in person. You cannot email them.
I certify that I am exempt from using TrueFiling for a reason listed in AB 92.
Signature: Print or Type Name:
Page 2 of 3
CIV-700 (7/25) Civil Rule 84
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME AS 09.55.010

Next Steps
1. Using TrueFiling: Create a TrueFiling account and log in. Upload this petition and any
attachments as one “bundle.” See instructions at ak-courts.info/tfhowto.
Not Using TrueFiling: Make a copy of this petition and any attachments for your records.
Bring the original to the court in person or mail it (court directory: ak-courts.info/dir).
2. There is a fee to file a case (see fee amounts at ak-courts.info/courtfees). In TrueFiling, pay
the fee with a credit or debit card. In person, you can pay the court clerk with most forms of
payment. By mail, include a check or money order. If you cannot afford the fee, attach
form TF-920 to request a waiver of the fee from the judge. Nothing will happen in your case
until you pay the fee or the court approves your waiver.
3. The court will schedule your case for a hearing and notify you of the date, time, and place.
The hearing information and proposed name change will be posted on the court’s website
unless you request a waiver of posting (see form CIV-708 to request a waiver). In addition,
the judge may order you to provide notice to others. Please carefully read any paperwork
you receive from the court for further instructions. If you do not follow any notice or posting
requirements, your case may be delayed.
Page 3 of 3
CIV-700 (7/25) Civil Rule 84
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME AS 09.55.010