IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
Plaintiff(s), )
vs. )
)
) CASE NO.
Defendant(s). )
)
AFFIDAVIT OF COMPLIANCE WITH 30-DAY NOTICE REQUIREMENT
FOR CERTAIN COVERED PROPERTIES (SEC. 4024 OF FEDERAL CARES ACT)
I, [name], state upon oath or
affirmation that the following facts are true to the best of my knowledge:
1. I am the plaintiff. an authorized agent of the plaintiff.
2. The plaintiff is bringing an eviction case on the following property, which the plaintiff owns:
3. The plaintiff wants to evict the defendant(s) for:
not paying rent. [Go to question 4]
a reason other than not paying rent, which is:
[Go to question 9 – add any additional information you want the judge to know.]
4. Does the property listed in question number 2 have five or more units in which people could
live (a “multifamily property”)?
Yes. [Go to question 5]
No. [Go to question 6]
5. Does the plaintiff currently have a mortgage forbearance because of financial problems
related to COVID-19 on a federally-backed mortgage, including loans owned by Fannie Mae
or Freddie Mac?
Yes. [Go to question 9. A plaintiff with a COVID-related mortgage forbearance on a federally-
backed mortgage for a multifamily property may not evict a tenant for non-payment of rent until (1)
the forbearance ends, and (2) the tenant receives 30 days’ notice to leave the property. The landlord
may not charge late fees or penalties for back rent or require past due rent to be paid in a lump sum
during the forbearance.]
No. [Go to question 6]
Page 1 of 2
CIV-731.1 (9/21)
AFFIDAVIT OF COMPLIANCE WITH 30-DAY NOTICE REQUIREMENT

6. Does the plaintiff have a “federally backed mortgage loan” or a “federally backed multifamily
mortgage loan” on this property?
Yes, the plaintiff has a loan that is:
made, insured, guaranteed, supplemented, or assisted by any officer or agency of
the federal government (including HUD, FHA, USDA, or the VA).
purchased or secured by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae.
[A plaintiff with one of these loans may not start an eviction case for failure to pay rent without
first giving the tenant 30 days’ notice to leave the property. Include the date of your notice in your
answer to question 8.]
No. [Go to question 7]
7. Is the property listed in question number 2 “covered” housing under one of the following
programs?
• Public housing • Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS
• Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher (HOPWA)
program • McKinney-Vento Act homelessness programs
• Section 8 project-based housing • Section 515 Rural Rental Housing
• Section 202 housing for the elderly • Sections 514 and 516 Farm Labor Housing
• Section 811 housing for people with • Section 533 Housing Preservation Grants
disabilities • Section 538 multifamily rental housing
• Section 236 multifamily rental housing; • Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC)
• Section 221(d)(3) Below Market Interest housing
Rate (BMIR) housing • Rural housing voucher program under section
• HOME 542 of the Housing Act of 1949
Yes, this property is covered housing. [If the property is “covered” housing, the plaintiff may
not start an eviction case for failure to pay rent without first giving the tenant 30 days’ notice to
leave the property. Include the date of your notice in your answer to question 8.]
No. [Go to question 9]
8. If the answer to question 6 or 7 is “yes,” the tenant must get 30 days’ notice to leave
the property before the plaintiff can file a Forcible Entry and Detainer (eviction) case. Date
the tenant was served with a notice to quit:
9. Other Information:
Signature
Print or Type Name (and Title, if applicable)
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at , Alaska on .
(SEAL)
Court clerk, notary public, or other person authorized to
administer oaths. My commission expires
Page 2 of 2
CIV-731.1 (9/21)
AFFIDAVIT OF COMPLIANCE WITH 30-DAY NOTICE REQUIREMENT