IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
)
)
)
Plaintiff(s), )
)
vs. )
)
) CASE NO.
)
Defendant(s). ) JUDGMENT CREDITOR’S
) AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY
, judgment creditor,
states upon oath or affirmation under penalty of perjury that:
1. A judgment was entered against (judgment debtor)
on (date) , in the sum of $ .
2. Pursuant to a writ of execution,
the following money was seized from sources listed on a Creditor's Affidavit
dated :
Amount Date Seized
the following earnings were seized by garnishment:
Amount Date Seized Employer
This money is being held by the court.
3. I attempted to serve the Notice to Debtor packet required by the Alaska Exemptions Act
[AS 09.38.080(c), .085 and .500(14)] as follows:
[Note: You must mail the packet both by certified mail and separately by first class
mail.]
a. I sent the notice to the debtor at the debtor’s last known address located at:
(1) by certified mail, restricted delivery, return receipt requested, on
. It was returned unserved because (attach
returned envelope)
-AND-
(2) also, separately, by first class mail (not certified mail) on
Result (attach envelope if returned):
Page 1 of 4
CIV-547 (11/17)(cs) Civil Rule 4(e) and 69(g)(5)(B)
JUDGMENT CREDITOR'S AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY

b. Personal service by a process server which was returned unserved because
(attach return):
4. In addition to the above, in order to fulfill my obligation to diligently inquire as to the
debtor's whereabouts and to serve notice on the debtor, I did the following (check only
the boxes that apply):
[Note: For more information about how to do the searches below, see the Judgment
Creditor’s Booklet (CIV-550).]
a. I wrote to and/or questioned debtor's friends and family:
Persons Contacted Relationship Results
b. I wrote to and/or questioned debtor's current and previous employer(s):
Employers Contacted Results
c. I checked telephone directories and Polk city directories (available at the
library), and called telephone information as follows:
Directories Checked Results
d. I used a locate-and-research company (such as Accurint and Ingens) to find
the debtor:
Companies Contacted Results
e. I conducted people-finder research on the Internet:
Websites Researched Results
Page 2 of 4
CIV-547 (11/17)(cs) Civil Rule 4(e) and 69(g)(5)(B)
JUDGMENT CREDITOR'S AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY

f. I checked Facebook and/or other online social networks with these results:
g. I checked with motor vehicle registrars in (cities):
with the following results:
h. I called utility companies as follows:
Companies Contacted City Results
i. I searched property tax listings as follows:
Communities Searched Results
j. I searched the Alaska Court System’s trial court records online
(https://records.courts.alaska.gov/) to find any cases involving the debtor. Then
I went to the courthouse to check the file(s) for a current address and found the
following:
k. I searched court records outside of Alaska with the following results:
Location of Courts Results
l. I searched recorded or filed documents at:
(1) the Recorder’s Office of the Alaska Deptartment of Natural Resources
(http://dnr.alaska.gov/ssd/recoff/searchRO.cfm) with the following results:
(2) a recorder’s office outside of Alaska, located in
with the following results:
m. I searched business license information at:
(1) the Alaska Division of Corporations, Business, and Professional Licensing
(https://www.commerce.alaska.gov/web/cbpl/) with the following results:
(2) other local and state agencies outside of Alaska with the following results:
Page 3 of 4
CIV-547 (11/17)(cs) Civil Rule 4(e) and 69(g)(5)(B)
JUDGMENT CREDITOR'S AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY

n. I believe the debtor may be in the military. Therefore, I contacted the following
military locator service(s):
Air Force: (210) 565-2660
Army: (888) 276-9472
Navy: (866) 827-5672
Marines: (703) 784-3942 or (800) 268-3710
Coast Guard: (866) 772-8724
with the following results:
o. Other:
5. I believe other methods of service may be more likely to give the absent party notice
(publication in a print or online newspaper, e-mail, posting on the absent party’s social
network account, physically posting on the front door of an absent party’s place of
residence, any other appropriate methods). Therefore, I did the following:
[Note: For more information about where you can find people, see the CIV-550,
Judgment Creditor’s Booklet, available from the court clerk and online at
https://public.courts.alaska.gov/web/forms/docs/civ-550.pdf. See also Tips on Locating
People available online at www.courts.alaska.gov/shc/family/docs/shc-tips.pdf.]
After completing all of the inquiries listed above, I do not know the whereabouts of the
debtor, and I do not know of any other sources of information through which I can learn
the whereabouts of the debtor.
Date Signature of Judgment Creditor
Print or Type Name
Address of Judgment Creditor
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at , Alaska
on
(date)
(SEAL) Clerk of Court, Notary Public, or other
person authorized to administer oaths.
My commission expires:
Page 4 of 4
CIV-547 (11/17)(cs) Civil Rule 4(e) and 69(g)(5)(B)
JUDGMENT CREDITOR'S AFFIDAVIT OF DILIGENT INQUIRY