IN THE DISTRICT/SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA
AT
REQUEST TO RETURN PFD TAKEN BY MISTAKE
Case Number (on notice you received from Department of Revenue):
Case Name (if known):
(Attach a copy of the notice you received from the Alaska Department of Revenue.)
REQUEST
My name is (please print):
$ was seized from my Alaska Permanent Fund Dividend (PFD) this year by
a writ of execution issued by the court. This seizure was a mistake because:
I already paid the judgment in this case. (If the case file does not show proof of payment,
attach proof.)
I am not the debtor who owes the money in this case.
Other mistake:
Further Explanation:
I object to this seizure, and I request that my PFD money be returned to me.
Date Signature
Mailing Address City State ZIP
Daytime Phone
CLERK’S REVIEW
Review of the case file
confirms the above information, so the money seized will be returned to the requestor.
does not confirm the above information, so request was sent to creditor for response.
Signature of Clerk/Deputy Clerk Date
ORDER
Request GRANTED. The clerk is directed to return the PFD money seized to the requestor.
Request DENIED. The clerk is directed to apply the seized money to pay the judgment.
Reason for denial:
Date Judge
I certify that on
a copy of this order was sent to: Type or Print Judge's Name
Clerk: _________
Page 1 of 2 AS 43.23.065(d)(5)
CIV-570 (9/10)(cs – duplex)
REQUEST TO RETURN PFD TAKEN BY MISTAKE

INSTRUCTIONS: HOW TO OBJECT IF YOUR PFD IS SEIZED BY MISTAKE
If your Permanent Fund Dividend (PFD) was seized by mistake, you can file an objection with
the court, using this form (CIV-570, Request to Return PFD Taken By Mistake). You must
file your request within 30 days after the Department of Revenue notifies you that part or all of
your dividend has been seized.
You can only file this request if a mistake was made. You cannot file this request if you simply
do not agree with the judgment that was entered against you.
The most common types of mistake are:
a. You are not the debtor who owes the money in the case. This can happen if you have
the same name as the debtor in the case.
b. You are the debtor in the case, but you already paid the judgment against you. This
can happen if you paid the judgment after the creditor served the writ of execution on
the Department of Revenue.
If you believe a mistake was made, do the following:
1. (Optional) You may want to try to call the creditor or the creditor’s attorney and explain
the mistake. If you do not know who the creditor is, ask the court. Ask the creditor to
immediately send the court a letter stating that the Permanent Fund Dividend was taken
by mistake and that the money should be returned to you immediately. (The letter
must include the case number.)
NOTE: If the creditor agrees, be sure to check back with the court within a few days to
make sure the court received the letter.
2. If you can’t reach the creditor or the creditor does not agree to send the court a letter
stating that the seizure was an error, complete the CIV-570, Request to Return PFD
Taken By Mistake and file it with the court. Attach to it the notice you received from
the Department of Revenue that told you how much of your PFD was seized by a writ of
execution. Also attach any proof you have that you already paid the judgment if the
court file does not show the payment.
3. The clerk’s office will review the information in your request and the documents in the
case file. If it is very clear that a mistake has been made, the clerk’s office may be able
to return the money to you fairly quickly. If it is less clear that a mistake has been
made, the clerk will have to give the creditor in the case a chance to object to your
request. The clerk will mail the creditor a Response form (CIV-571) which the creditor
must return within 13 days. When the court receives the creditor’s response (or after
the 13 days have passed if there is no response), the matter will be referred to a judicial
officer for decision. You will be notified of the decision.
Page 2 of 2 AS 43.23.065(d)(5)
CIV-570 (9/10)(cs – duplex)
REQUEST TO RETURN PFD TAKEN BY MISTAKE